                            CHAPTER IX

                  "Who could have Foreseen it?"

A dreadful thing has happened to us.  Who could have foreseen it? 
I cannot foresee any end to our troubles.  It may be that we are
condemned to spend our whole lives in this strange, inaccessible place. 
I am still so confused that I can hardly think clearly of the facts
of the present or of the chances of the future.  To my astounded
senses the one seems most terrible and the other as black as night.

No men have ever found themselves in a worse position; nor is
there any use in disclosing to you our exact geographical
situation and asking our friends for a relief party.  Even if
they could send one, our fate will in all human probability be
decided long before it could arrive in South America.

We are, in truth, as far from any human aid as if we were in
the moon.  If we are to win through, it is only our own qualities
which can save us.  I have as companions three remarkable men, men
of great brain-power and of unshaken courage.  There lies our one
and only hope.  It is only when I look upon the untroubled faces
of my comrades that I see some glimmer through the darkness. 
Outwardly I trust that I appear as unconcerned as they.  Inwardly I
am filled with apprehension.

Let me give you, with as much detail as I can, the sequence of
events which have led us to this catastrophe.

When I finished my last letter I stated that we were within seven
miles from an enormous line of ruddy cliffs, which encircled,
beyond all doubt, the plateau of which Professor Challenger spoke. 
Their height, as we approached them, seemed to me in some places
to be greater than he had stated--running up in parts to at least
a thousand feet--and they were curiously striated, in a manner
which is, I believe, characteristic of basaltic upheavals. 
Something of the sort is to be seen in Salisbury Crags at Edinburgh. 
The summit showed every sign of a luxuriant vegetation, with bushes
near the edge, and farther back many high trees.  There was no
indication of any life that we could see.

That night we pitched our camp immediately under the cliff--a
most wild and desolate spot.  The crags above us were not merely
perpendicular, but curved outwards at the top, so that ascent was
out of the question.  Close to us was the high thin pinnacle of
rock which I believe I mentioned earlier in this narrative.  It is
like a broad red church spire, the top of it being level with the
plateau, but a great chasm gaping between.  On the summit of it
there grew one high tree.  Both pinnacle and cliff were
comparatively low--some five or six hundred feet, I should think.

"It was on that," said Professor Challenger, pointing to this
tree, "that the pterodactyl was perched.  I climbed half-way up
the rock before I shot him.  I am inclined to think that a good
mountaineer like myself could ascend the rock to the top, though
he would, of course, be no nearer to the plateau when he had done so."

As Challenger spoke of his pterodactyl I glanced at Professor
Summerlee, and for the first time I seemed to see some signs of a
dawning credulity and repentance.  There was no sneer upon his
thin lips, but, on the contrary, a gray, drawn look of excitement
and amazement.  Challenger saw it, too, and reveled in the first
taste of victory.

"Of course," said he,  with his clumsy and ponderous sarcasm,
"Professor Summerlee will understand that when I speak of a
pterodactyl I mean a stork--only it is the kind of stork which
has no feathers, a leathery skin, membranous wings, and teeth in
its jaws."  He grinned and blinked and bowed until his colleague
turned and walked away.

In the morning, after a frugal breakfast of coffee and manioc--we
had to be economical of our stores--we held a council of war as
to the best method of ascending to the plateau above us.

Challenger presided with a solemnity as if he were the Lord Chief
Justice on the Bench.  Picture him seated upon a rock, his absurd
boyish straw hat tilted on the back of his head, his supercilious
eyes dominating us from under his drooping lids, his great black
beard wagging as he slowly defined our present situation and our
future movements.

Beneath him you might have seen the three of us--myself,
sunburnt, young, and vigorous after our open-air tramp;
Summerlee, solemn but still critical, behind his eternal pipe;
Lord John, as keen as a razor-edge, with his supple, alert figure
leaning upon his rifle, and his eager eyes fixed eagerly upon
the speaker.  Behind us were grouped the two swarthy half-breeds
and the little knot of Indians, while in front and above us towered
those huge, ruddy ribs of rocks which kept us from our goal.

"I need not say," said our leader, "that on the occasion of my
last visit I exhausted every means of climbing the cliff, and
where I failed I do not think that anyone else is likely to
succeed, for I am something of a mountaineer.  I had none of the
appliances of a rock-climber with me, but I have taken the
precaution to bring them now.  With their aid I am positive I
could climb that detached pinnacle to the summit; but so long as
the main cliff overhangs, it is vain to attempt ascending that. 
I was hurried upon my last visit by the approach of the rainy
season and by the exhaustion of my supplies.  These considerations
limited my time, and I can only claim that I have surveyed about
six miles of the cliff to the east of us, finding no possible
way up.  What, then, shall we now do?"

"There seems to be only one reasonable course," said Professor Summerlee. 
"If you have explored the east, we should travel along the base of the
cliff to the west, and seek for a practicable point for our ascent."

"That's it," said Lord John.  "The odds are that this plateau is of
no great size, and we shall travel round it until we either find an
easy way up it, or come back to the point from which we started."

"I have already explained to our young friend here," said
Challenger (he has a way of alluding to me as if I were a school
child ten years old), "that it is quite impossible that there
should be an easy way up anywhere, for the simple reason that if
there were the summit would not be isolated, and those conditions
would not obtain which have effected so singular an interference
with the general laws of survival.  Yet I admit that there may
very well be places where an expert human climber may reach the
summit, and yet a cumbrous and heavy animal be unable to descend. 
It is certain that there is a point where an ascent is possible."

"How do you know that, sir?" asked Summerlee, sharply.

"Because my predecessor, the American Maple White, actually made
such an ascent.  How otherwise could he have seen the monster
which he sketched in his notebook?"

"There you reason somewhat ahead of the proved facts," said the
stubborn Summerlee.  "I admit your plateau, because I have seen
it; but I have not as yet satisfied myself that it contains any
form of life whatever."

"What you admit, sir, or what you do not admit, is really of
inconceivably small importance.  I am glad to perceive that the
plateau itself has actually obtruded itself upon your intelligence." 
He glanced up at it, and then, to our amazement, he sprang from his
rock, and, seizing Summerlee by the neck, he tilted his face into
the air.  "Now sir!" he shouted, hoarse with excitement.  "Do I
help you to realize that the plateau contains some animal life?"

I have said that a thick fringe of green overhung the edge of the cliff. 
Out of this there had emerged a black, glistening object.  As it came
slowly forth and overhung the chasm, we saw that it was a very large
snake with a peculiar flat, spade-like head.  It wavered and quivered
above us for a minute, the morning sun gleaming upon its sleek,
sinuous coils.  Then it slowly drew inwards and disappeared.

Summerlee had been so interested that he had stood unresisting
while Challenger tilted his head into the air.  Now he shook his
colleague off and came back to his dignity.

"I should be glad, Professor Challenger," said he, "if you could
see your way to make any remarks which may occur to you without
seizing me by the chin.  Even the appearance of a very ordinary
rock python does not appear to justify such a liberty."

"But there is life upon the plateau all the same," his colleague
replied in triumph.  "And now, having demonstrated this important
conclusion so that it is clear to anyone, however prejudiced or
obtuse, I am of opinion that we cannot do better than break up
our camp and travel to westward until we find some means of ascent."

The ground at the foot of the cliff was rocky and broken so that
the going was slow and difficult.  Suddenly we came, however,
upon something which cheered our hearts.  It was the site of an
old encampment, with several empty Chicago meat tins, a bottle
labeled "Brandy," a broken tin-opener, and a quantity of other
travelers' debris.  A crumpled, disintegrated newspaper revealed  
itself as the Chicago Democrat, though the date had been obliterated.

"Not mine," said Challenger.  "It must be Maple White's."

Lord John had been gazing curiously at a great tree-fern which
overshadowed the encampment.  "I say, look at this," said he. 
"I believe it is meant for a sign-post."

A slip of hard wood had been nailed to the tree in such a way as
to point to the westward.

"Most certainly a sign-post," said Challenger.  "What else? 
Finding himself upon a dangerous errand, our pioneer has left
this sign so that any party which follows him may know the way he
has taken.  Perhaps we shall come upon some other indications as
we proceed."

We did indeed, but they were of a terrible and most unexpected nature. 
Immediately beneath the cliff there grew a considerable patch of high
bamboo, like that which we had traversed in our journey.  Many of
these stems were twenty feet high, with sharp, strong tops, so that
even as they stood they made formidable spears.  We were passing
along the edge of this cover when my eye was caught by the gleam of
something white within it.  Thrusting in my head between the stems,
I found myself gazing at a fleshless skull.  The whole skeleton was
there, but the skull had detached itself and lay some feet nearer to
the open.

With a few blows from the machetes of our Indians we cleared the
spot and were able to study the details of this old tragedy. 
Only a few shreds of clothes could still be distinguished, but
there were the remains of boots upon the bony feet, and it was
very clear that the dead man was a European.  A gold watch by
Hudson, of New York, and a chain which held a stylographic pen,
lay among the bones.  There was also a silver cigarette-case,
with "J. C., from A. E. S.," upon the lid.  The state of the
metal seemed to show that the catastrophe had occurred no great
time before.

"Who can he be?" asked Lord John.  "Poor devil! every bone in his
body seems to be broken."

"And the bamboo grows through his smashed ribs," said Summerlee. 
"It is a fast-growing plant, but it is surely inconceivable that
this body could have been here while the canes grew to be twenty
feet in length."

"As to the man's identity," said Professor Challenger, "I have no
doubt whatever upon that point.  As I made my way up the river
before I reached you at the fazenda I instituted very particular
inquiries about Maple White.  At Para they knew nothing. 
Fortunately, I had a definite clew, for there was a particular
picture in his sketch-book which showed him taking lunch with a
certain ecclesiastic at Rosario.  This priest I was able to find,
and though he proved a very argumentative fellow, who took it
absurdly amiss that I should point out to him the corrosive
effect which modern science must have upon his beliefs, he none
the less gave me some positive information.  Maple White passed
Rosario four years ago, or two years before I saw his dead body. 
He was not alone at the time, but there was a friend, an American
named James Colver, who remained in the boat and did not meet
this ecclesiastic.  I think, therefore, that there can be no doubt
that we are now looking upon the remains of this James Colver."

"Nor," said Lord John, "is there much doubt as to how he met
his death.  He has fallen or been chucked from the top, and so
been impaled.  How else could he come by his broken bones, and
how could he have been stuck through by these canes with their
points so high above our heads?"

A hush came over us as we stood round these shattered remains and
realized the truth of Lord John Roxton's words.  The beetling
head of the cliff projected over the cane-brake.  Undoubtedly he
had fallen from above.  But had he fallen?  Had it been an accident? 
Or--already ominous and terrible possibilities began to form round
that unknown land.

We moved off in silence, and continued to coast round the line
of cliffs, which were as even and unbroken as some of those
monstrous Antarctic ice-fields which I have seen depicted as
stretching from horizon to horizon and towering high above the
mast-heads of the exploring vessel.

In five miles we saw no rift or break.  And then suddenly we
perceived something which filled us with new hope.  In a hollow
of the rock, protected from rain, there was drawn a rough arrow
in chalk, pointing still to the westwards.

"Maple White again," said Professor Challenger.  "He had some
presentiment that worthy footsteps would follow close behind him."

"He had chalk, then?"

"A box of colored chalks was among the effects I found in
his knapsack.  I remember that the white one was worn to a stump."

"That is certainly good evidence," said Summerlee.  "We can only
accept his guidance and follow on to the westward."

We had proceeded some five more miles when again we saw a white
arrow upon the rocks.  It was at a point where the face of the
cliff was for the first time split into a narrow cleft.  Inside the
cleft was a second guidance mark, which pointed right up it with
the tip somewhat elevated, as if the spot indicated were above
the level of the ground.

It was a solemn place, for the walls were so gigantic and the
slit of blue sky so narrow and so obscured by a double fringe
of verdure, that only a dim and shadowy light penetrated to
the bottom.  We had had no food for many hours, and were very
weary with the stony and irregular journey, but our nerves were
too strung to allow us to halt.  We ordered the camp to be pitched,
however, and, leaving the Indians to arrange it, we four, with
the two half-breeds, proceeded up the narrow gorge.

It was not more than forty feet across at the mouth, but it
rapidly closed until it ended in an acute angle, too straight
and smooth for an ascent.  Certainly it was not this which our
pioneer had attempted to indicate.  We made our way back--the
whole gorge was not more than a quarter of a mile deep--and
then suddenly the quick eyes of Lord John fell upon what we
were seeking.  High up above our heads, amid the dark shadows,
there was one circle of deeper gloom.  Surely it could only be
the opening of a cave.

The base of the cliff was heaped with loose stones at the spot,
and it was not difficult to clamber up.  When we reached it, all
doubt was removed.  Not only was it an opening into the rock, but
on the side of it there was marked once again the sign of the arrow. 
Here was the point, and this the means by which Maple White and his
ill-fated comrade had made their ascent.

We were too excited to return to the camp, but must make our
first exploration at once.  Lord John had an electric torch in
his knapsack, and this had to serve us as light.  He advanced,
throwing his little clear circlet of yellow radiance before him,
while in single file we followed at his heels.

The cave had evidently been water-worn, the sides being smooth
and the floor covered with rounded stones.  It was of such a size
that a single man could just fit through by stooping.  For fifty
yards it ran almost straight into the rock, and then it ascended
at an angle of forty-five.  Presently this incline became even
steeper, and we found ourselves climbing upon hands and knees
among loose rubble which slid from beneath us.  Suddenly an
exclamation broke from Lord Roxton.

"It's blocked!" said he.

Clustering behind him we saw in the yellow field of light a wall
of broken basalt which extended to the ceiling.

"The roof has fallen in!"

In vain we dragged out some of the pieces.  The only effect was
that the larger ones became detached and threatened to roll down
the gradient and crush us.  It was evident that the obstacle was
far beyond any efforts which we could make to remove it.  The road
by which Maple White had ascended was no longer available.

Too much cast down to speak, we stumbled down the dark tunnel and
made our way back to the camp.

One incident occurred, however, before we left the gorge, which
is of importance in view of what came afterwards.

We had gathered in a little group at the bottom of the chasm,
some forty feet beneath the mouth of the cave, when a huge rock
rolled suddenly downwards--and shot past us with tremendous force. 
It was the narrowest escape for one or all of us.  We could not
ourselves see whence the rock had come, but our half-breed
servants, who were still at the opening of the cave, said that
it had flown past them, and must therefore have fallen from
the summit.  Looking upwards, we could see no sign of movement
above us amidst the green jungle which topped the cliff. 
There could be little doubt, however, that the stone was aimed
at us, so the incident surely pointed to humanity--and malevolent
humanity--upon the plateau.

We withdrew hurriedly from the chasm, our minds full of this new
development and its bearing upon our plans.  The situation was
difficult enough before, but if the obstructions of Nature were
increased by the deliberate opposition of man, then our case was
indeed a hopeless one.  And yet, as we looked up at that
beautiful fringe of verdure only a few hundreds of feet above
our heads, there was not one of us who could conceive the idea
of returning to London until we had explored it to its depths.

On discussing the situation, we determined that our best course
was to continue to coast round the plateau in the hope of finding
some other means of reaching the top.  The line of cliffs, which
had decreased considerably in height, had already begun to trend
from west to north, and if we could take this as representing the
arc of a circle, the whole circumference could not be very great. 
At the worst, then, we should be back in a few days at our
starting-point.

We made a march that day which totaled some two-and-twenty miles,
without any change in our prospects.  I may mention that our
aneroid shows us that in the continual incline which we have
ascended since we abandoned our canoes we have risen to no less
than three thousand feet above sea-level.  Hence there is a
considerable change both in the temperature and in the vegetation. 
We have shaken off some of that horrible insect life which is
the bane of tropical travel.  A few palms still survive, and many
tree-ferns, but the Amazonian trees have been all left behind. 
It was pleasant to see the convolvulus, the passion-flower, and
the begonia, all reminding me of home, here among these
inhospitable rocks.  There was a red begonia just the same color
as one that is kept in a pot in the window of a certain villa
in Streatham--but I am drifting into private reminiscence.

That night--I am still speaking of the first day of our
circumnavigation of the plateau--a great experience awaited us,
and one which for ever set at rest any doubt which we could have
had as to the wonders so near us.

You will realize as you read it, my dear Mr. McArdle, and
possibly for the first time that the paper has not sent me on a
wild-goose chase, and that there is inconceivably fine copy
waiting for the world whenever we have the Professor's leave to
make use of it.  I shall not dare to publish these articles
unless I can bring back my proofs to England, or I shall be
hailed as the journalistic Munchausen of all time.  I have no
doubt that you feel the same way yourself, and that you would not
care to stake the whole credit of the Gazette upon this adventure
until we can meet the chorus of criticism and scepticism which
such articles must of necessity elicit.  So this wonderful
incident, which would make such a headline for the old paper,
must still wait its turn in the editorial drawer.

And yet it was all over in a flash, and there was no sequel to it,
save in our own convictions.

What occurred was this.  Lord John had shot an ajouti--which is a
small, pig-like animal--and, half of it having been given to the
Indians, we were cooking the other half upon our fire.  There is
a chill in the  air after dark, and we had all drawn close to
the blaze.  The night was moonless, but there were some stars,
and one could see for a little distance across the plain. 
Well, suddenly out of the darkness, out of the night, there swooped
something with a swish like an aeroplane.  The whole group of us
were covered for an instant by a canopy of leathery wings, and I
had a momentary vision of a long, snake-like neck, a fierce, red,
greedy eye, and a great snapping beak, filled, to my amazement,
with little, gleaming teeth.  The next instant it was gone--and
so was our dinner.  A huge black shadow, twenty feet across,
skimmed up into the air; for an instant the monster wings blotted
out the stars, and then it vanished over the brow of the cliff
above us.  We all sat in amazed silence round the fire, like the
heroes of Virgil when the Harpies came down upon them.  It was
Summerlee who was the first to speak.

"Professor Challenger," said he, in a solemn voice, which
quavered with emotion, "I owe you an apology.  Sir, I am very
much in the wrong, and I beg that you will forget what is past."

It was handsomely said, and the two men for the first time shook hands. 
So much we have gained by this clear vision of our first pterodactyl. 
It was worth a stolen supper to bring two such men together.

But if prehistoric life existed upon the plateau it was not
superabundant, for we had no further glimpse of it during the
next three days.  During this time we traversed a barren and
forbidding country, which alternated between stony desert and
desolate marshes full of many wild-fowl, upon the north and
east of the cliffs.  From that direction the place is really
inaccessible, and, were it not for a hardish ledge which runs at
the very base of the precipice, we should have had to turn back. 
Many times we were up to our waists in the slime and blubber of
an old, semi-tropical swamp.  To make matters worse, the place
seemed to be a favorite breeding-place of the Jaracaca snake, the
most venomous and aggressive in South America.  Again and again
these horrible creatures came writhing and springing towards us
across the surface of this putrid bog, and it was only by keeping
our shot-guns for ever ready that we could feel safe from them. 
One funnel-shaped depression in the morass, of a livid green in
color from some lichen which festered in it, will always remain
as a nightmare memory in my mind.  It seems to have been a
special nest of these vermins, and the slopes were alive with
them, all writhing in our direction, for it is a peculiarity
of the Jaracaca that he will always attack man at first sight. 
There were too many for us to shoot, so we fairly took to our
heels and ran until we were exhausted.  I shall always remember
as we looked back how far behind we could see the heads and necks
of our horrible pursuers rising and falling amid the reeds. 
Jaracaca Swamp we named it in the map which we are constructing.

