  
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  

Russian government, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have 
reached a general agreement on the principal conditions necessary for the new 
aid package to Russia. According to unofficial information reported by New York 
Times on July 8, the IMF is ready to offer Russia $5.6 bln, while the Russian 
government has requested $15 bln. 

The United Nations Committee on economic development of European countries has 
published a report on the current economic situation in the countries of Central 
and Eastern Europe. According to the report, the current economic instability in 
Russia might negatively affect economic development of the Central and East-
European countries. The report states that it is imperative for the Russian 
government to speed up the tax reform. The analysts of the Committee believe 
that there is a danger of uncontrollable and unexpected rouble devaluation that 
will lead to a new wave of inflation and result in depreciation of most East-
European currencies. The Committee expressed an opinion that the Russian 
government should conduct controlled rouble devaluation if the country’s foreign 
exchange reserves decline significantly. The experts believe that the outcome of 
this step will be less damaging for Russia than the consequences of 
uncontrollable devaluation and recurrence of October 1994 events. 

Fitch IBCA cut the long-term credit rating of Rossiisky Credit bank from B+ to B 
with a stable outlook. According to the agency’s data, financial condition of 
the bank has deteriorated as a result of financial crisis in Russia. 

Standard & Poor’s cut credit ratings to six Russian commercial banks. The long-
term ratings are reduced from B+ to B to Inkombank, Vozrozhdenie and SBS-Agro. 
Three other banks, Alba-Alliance, Rossiisky Credit and Alfa-Bank had their 
ratings cut from B to B-. 

During the visit to Japan starting July 13, Russia’s Prime Minister Sergei 
Kirienko will sign an agreement to receive a $800 mln loan from the ExIm Bank of 
Japan. The funds will be available at the end of July and will be used to 
modernise Russia’s coal industry. 

Russia’s foreign exchange and gold reserves fell from $16 billion to $15.1 
billion over the period from June 26 to July 3. From the beginning of 1998, the 
country’s foreign exchange and gold reserves declined by about 15%. 

On July 9, 1998, the Russian Central Bank temporarily stopped offering Lombard 
loans to commercial banks at a fixed rate. From now on, such loans will be 
offered only through auctions at rates close to the prevailing market rate. 
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas  

On July 3, Royal Dutch/Shell announced that it would not participate in the 
tender for 75% plus one share stake in Rosneft. The company quoted continued 
decline of world oil prices and the difficult financial situation in Russia as 
the primary reasons for its decision. British Petroleum has also announced its 
decision not to participate in the tender. British Petroleum planned to take 
part in the tender together with UNEXIM bank. On July 6, a representative of 
UNEXIM said that the bank would not take part in the tender because of 
“unfavourable situation in the world oil market”. On July 10, the government 
announced that the deadline for submitting bids to participate in the tender 
would be moved to October 27 and the results of the tender would be made public 
on October 30.  

According to Alexander Semenyaka, a member of the Gasprom’s board of directors, 
the company expects to receive a credit rating higher than that of the Russian 
Federation. On July 9, Gasprom reported its intent to sell its share stakes 
worth $1 bln each to Shell and ENI.  

 Energy  

Sverdlovenergo has reduced the used capacity of Sredneural Power Station from 
1,216 MWt to 150 MWt because it has no resources to buy fuel. Sverdlovenergo had 
to stop production at Sredneural Station for three days (from July 4 to July 6). 
Nizhneturin Power Station has also been working at below full capacity. 
Sverdovsk Power Station, which had been stopped for repairing, will probably not 
resume work if it has no gas. However, in the whole Sverdlovenergo has succeeded 
in maintaining the energy balance in Sverdlovsk region. 

On July 8, Mezhregiongas fully stopped supplying gas to Sosnogorsk 
Thermoelectric Power Station, which is located in Ukhta and owned by Komienergo. 
From the beginning of 1998, Komienergo has paid Mezhregiongas in cash for less 
than 2% of supplied gas. Komienergo will now have to use its reserves of fuel 
oil, which can last for three or four days. The installed capacity of Sosnogorsk 
Station, the largest electric station of Komienergo, is 390 MWt. 

 Telecommunications  

Russia’s telecommunications holding Svyazinvest plans that its subsidiaries will 
raise about $200 mln through additional share issues. According to Svyazinvest’s 
general director, shareholders of twelve regional telecoms voted to place 
additional issues. It is expected that the number of companies to issue new 
shares will grow to about twenty. 

Russian Fund of Federal Property announced that a tender for a 7.11% stake in 
Chelyabsvyazinform will be held on July 30 instead of the earlier planned date 
of July 9. 472,000 shares will be sold in the tender with the starting price for 
the stake set at R82 mln. Bids will be accepted until July 27. 

 Other Companies 

On July 1, Tyumenaviatrans started placement of its shares. The company will 
place 124 million shares with a par value of R1,000 in addition to 577 million 
outstanding shares. The placement will be completed by September 11, 1998. 

Volzhskii Pipe Plant (VPP) won a tender to deliver pipes to Surgutneftegas. 
According to the terms of the contract, VPP will supply 13,000 tonnes of 
different types of pipes. The amount of the order is R40 roubles. Five companies 
took part in the tender including Chelyabinsk Pipe Plant, NOSTA, Severstal, 
Vyksa Metallurgical Plant and Volzhskii Pipe Plant. Volzhskii Pipe Plant also 
signed several contracts with Kala Naft of Iran to supply 18,000 tonnes of pipes 
for the total amount of $10 million. 

Avtobank opened a one-year R250 million credit line for Severstal (Cherepovets 
Metal Works). Severstal is connected with other large clients of Avtobank 
including ore-dressing mills, raw materials suppliers and users of the metal 
products such as auto plants ZIL and GAZ. 
  
	

On Monday, yields on GKO with long maturities increased to 93-96% from 85-86%. 
On July 7, the yield reached 118-120%. On July 8, the average yield totalled 
113.82%. By the end of the week, yields on some GKO issues increased to 140-
150%. 
  
	
  
		The RTS Index decreased by 4.8% on the week. The trading volume for 
the week totalled $ 89 mln..
   
		 
   
