 
  
	What We Do 
  

Working in the Russian securities market, Profit House has accumulated unique 
expertise. This expertise coupled with professionalism of our people allows us 
to offer high quality services to our clients. According to the October 1997 
AK&M rating of professionalism of brokerage companies, Profit House is in the 
top 25 market participants.  
Constantly expanding the scope of its operations in the securities market, 
Profit House offers its clients a wide range of services that currently includes 
the following:  

broker trading in equities and equity derivatives;  
    RTS, RTS-2, MICEX equities department, Moscow Stock Exchange  
fixed income trading;  
    GKO, OFZ, OGSZ, OGVZ, municipal bonds  
operations with veksel promissory notes;  
portfolio management;  
depository and custody services;  
equity research and information support;  
services for issuer companies;  
investment consultations.  
  
  

	Brokerage Services  

In several years of operating in the Russian stock market, Profit House 
accumulated significant expertise, developed trading and support infrastructure, 
established long-standing relationships with companies and brokers in the 
regions, and earned a reputation of a competent and trustworthy partner. As a 
result, our company is prepared to bring value to our clients by offering them 
quality brokerage services.  

On behalf of our clients, we buy and sell stocks listed on RTS and RTS-2 as well 
as less liquid shares of regional companies without RTS listing.  

In November 1997, Profit House became a member of the equities department of the 
Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX). The stocks of largest and most 
liquid Russian issuers (UES, LUKoil, Rostelecom, Irkutskenergo, Tatneft, 
Mosenergo, etc.) are traded on MICEX. The lot sizes at MICEX can be adjusted to 
clients’ needs and the minimum lot size is much smaller than that in the RTS. We 
perform trades for our clients using real-time access to MICEX trading through 
remote terminals.  

As a registered participant on the Moscow Stock Exchange (MSE), Profit House is 
authorized to trade in Gazprom shares. Gazprom is one of Russia’s biggest 
companies by market capitalisation, but liquidity of its shares is limited, 
because the President’s decree states that shares must be offered to Gazprom 
before being sold. If Gazprom does not take its option to buy the shares within 
30 days, the owner can sell them at the specified price within another 90 days. 
This procedure is inconvenient and time-consuming for an investor.  

At the same time, MSE transactions with Gazprom shares are performed 
electronically and participants have the right to sell the shares without asking 
Gazprom for permission. Acting through a broker registered at MSE, the investor 
is able to efficiently buy or sell Gazprom stock at the current market price at 
any time.  

  

   
	Fixed Income Trading  

Profit House is an authorized dealer in the state debt market and has remote 
terminals for real-time participation in MICEX trading. We trade fixed income 
securities, including GKO and OFZ for our own account and on behalf of our 
clients.  

GKO and OFZ are issued by the Russian Finance Ministry. Investing in these 
instruments is low risk compared to investing in corporate equities and provides 
a steady income with yields higher than bank interest rates on deposits. We 
recommend investing in government debt instruments to investors with low risk 
tolerance.  

Our experienced professionals are always ready to offer advice and information 
regarding investing in GKO and OFZ, and the current situation in the government 
debt market.  
  
  

   
	Operations With Veksel Promissory Notes  

Profit House is an active participant in the veksel promissory notes market 
trading veksels both for its own account and on behalf of its clients. We 
currently perform the following operations with promissory notes:  
Purchase, sale and exchange of promissory notes issued by the leading banks, 
including Sberbank, Unexim Bank, Bank Menatep, Inkombank, etc;  
Operations with corporate notes of energy, machine-building, metallurgy, oil and 
gas, and railway enterprises;  
Repo transactions with most liquid promissory notes;  
Redemption and sale of promissory notes with low liquidity.  

  
  
   
	Depository and Custody Services  

Profit House has a license from the Federal Securities Commission (FSC) to 
conduct the following depository and custodian activities for its clients:  

Opening individual client accounts to keep records of the client’s securities 
positions and track performance;  
Inclusion in the share registry of the nominal holder or of the owner of 
securities;  
For bearer securities – transfer of the securities and rights associated with 
them to the custodian;  
Accounting and certification of transfer of ownership rights, granting and 
restricting of rights associated with ownership of securities;  
Ensuring of rights associated with ownership of securities.  
Every client can at any time receive complete information about his securities 
positions.  
To help ensure shareholder rights, Profit House offers the following services:  
Tracking information on important corporate events directly affecting 
shareholder interests and participation in such events;  
Participation in shareholders meetings as the nominal holder on behalf of the 
clients.  
In the areas of securities registration and custody, Profit House cooperates 
with the leading Russian depositories, including Unexim, Depository Clearing 
Company (DCC), and the Depository Settlement Union (DSU).  
  
   

   
	Equity Research and Information Support   

Our research department performs research and prepares information that is used 
by all divisions of the company and offered to our clients. Our clients receive 
the following information support services and materials:  

Current Market Information, including information about the current situation in 
the securities market and the market sentiment, prices of traded shares and 
bonds, etc. To keep track of the market situation, we use real-time news 
services including Bloomberg, Reuters, Interfax and AK&M.  
Weekly Reviews of economic and political events influencing the situation in the 
securities market. These informational materials cover important corporate, 
political and market events as well as financial results of particular 
companies. Most important market statistics for the week are also included in 
each review.  
Brief Analytical Reports are usually one- or two-page company research materials 
compiled at the request of our clients. Each report includes overview of the 
company’s business and general prospects, dividend history, share issue and 
shareholder structure data, and basic financials. Our extensive database 
accumulated during the last several years and constantly updated allows us to 
offer information about little-known companies that are new to the stock 
market.  
Detailed Research Materials are prepared for clients who consider investing in 
large equity stakes to help in assessing investment attractiveness of the 
company. They include discussion of strengths and weaknesses of the company; 
market and competitive analysis; changes in production, sales, and productivity 
in the recent years; financial statement analysis; prospects of development; 
company valuation; company’s stock performance and position in the market.  

 
  

   
	Services For Issuer Companies  

Preparation and implementation of measures to improve liquidity of the company’s 
shares;  
Assistance in implementation of investment projects;  
Preparation; registration, and placement of secondary stock issues;  
Organisation of shareholders meetings;  
Legal advice on issuing and placement of shares.  

   

	Investment Consultations  

Profit House professionals are always ready to offer consultations on all 
aspects of operation in the Russian securities markets, including advising on 
tax and legal issues, recommendations on investing in different securities 
classes, and development of the optimal individual investment strategy.  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
