 

  
	ECONOMICS     

The deputies of State Duma passed a law “On Federal Budget for 1998” in its 
fourth and final reading.  

The International Monetary Fund will issue the next tranche of its $9.2 billion 
loan to Russia in May.  
On March 1, 1998 the proportion of old and new currency in circulation was 50.9% 
and 49.1%, respectively. According to the Central Bank of Russia, the total 
amount of currency in circulation on March 1, 1998 was 66.9 billion new 
roubles.  

According to the official data of Russia’s State Statistics Committee, inflation 
rate was 0.9% in February 1998 compared to 1.5% in January 1998.  
  
	COMPANIES     

 Oil & gas  
  
German-British investment bank Dresdner Kleinwort Benson won the right to 
conduct evaluation of the oil company Rosneft. Kleinwort Benson asked $650,000 
for its services. The evaluation results will be announced on March 14, 1998.  

Level-2 ADRs of Tatneft will be listed on New York Stock Exchange.  

Bashneft and Bashneftekhim signed an agreement to establish Bashkiria Oil 
Company (BNK). The government of Bashkiriya republic intends to complete the 
merger within a month.  

The chairman of Russia’s national electricity company Unified Energy Systems, 
Anatoly Dyakov, has not been nominated by shareholders to the new board of 
directors. There are currently 32 candidates for 15 places on the board. The new 
board will be elected during extraordinary and annual shareholders meetings. 
Boris Brevnov is among the candidates.  

 Energy  
  
Samaraenergo plans to issue level-1 ADRs in a month. One ADR will represent 10 
shares. The shareholders of the company will have an option to convert their 
shares to ADRs.  

 Telecommunications  
  
Electrsvyaz of Volgograd region plans to issue ADRs in 1999.  

Svyazinvest intends to receive more than $1 billion for the 25% minus two shares 
stake, which will be sold on the auction in the third or fourth quarter of this 
year. George Soros will probably take part in the auction. Svyazinvest plans to 
receive a $400 mln syndicated bank loan in second quarter 1998 and to issue 
eurobonds in the second half of the year.  

Novgorodtelecom started preparation for level-1 ADRs issue. An agreement between 
Novgorodtelecom and The Bank of New York that will acts as the depository has 
already been signed.  

 Other Companies  

Russian metals group Norilsk Nickel is considering launching ADR issue in the 
middle of this year and is also considering issuing convertible bonds.  

Shareholders of Akrikhin, Russia’s 5th largest pharmaceuticals producer, will 
consider an agreement with a depository regarding issuing of depository receipts 
during the extraordinary meeting on March 13, 1998.  

Russia’s Federal Securities Commission stopped the issue of common shares of 
Dalmoreproduct, Russia’s largest fish and seafood processing company, because 
the issue documentation was not prepared in accordance with the law.  

Izhorsk Plants and Uralmash Plants finalised their merger agreement. The merger 
will be accomplished by means of exchange of shares. The new company’s annual 
sales are estimated at $500 million.  

VSMPO and AVISMA will be consolidated to form a single production cycle. AVISMA 
is the VSMPO’s main supplier of titanium. As a result of the merger, the exports 
of both companies are estimated to grow at the rate of 8% per year. VSMPO’s 
capacity utilisation rate will considerably increase from the current low level 
of 27%.  

AutoVAZ plans to sign the joint venture agreement with Opel. The cars will be 
assembled on the facilities of AutoVAZ. The output is expected to be 35,000-
50,000 cars per year.  
  
	 
