 
  
	ECONOMICS     

Despite last week’s rating downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service, experts of 
investment bank Merrill Lynch recommend to invest in Russia.  

Russia’s fourth Eurobond, a DM-denominated issue, will have a volume of at least 
one billion deutsche marks and a maturity of seven years. The bond will yield 
estimated 9%, which is 345-385 basis points above German bonds with similar 
maturity. The Finance Ministry has stated that the government intends to raise 
$3.5 billion in eurobond issues this year.  

The Russian central bank’s gold and foreign exchange reserves have risen more 
than $900 million last month to reach about $16 billion.  

Russia’s gross domestic product was up 0.7% for the first two months of the year 
compared to the same period last year. In February, industrial production was 
R263 billion that corresponds to a year-on-year growth of 1.4%.  
  
	COMPANIES     

 Oil & gas  

Investment bank Dresdner Kleinwort Benson valued Russia’s last state-owned oil 
company Rosneft at $2.3 billion and recommended the government to sell a 50% 
plus one share stake. The Privatisation Ministry will offer 75% plus one share 
of Rosneft in an auction with bids accepted beginning with March 24. The 
starting price will be $2.1 billion (Dresdner Kleinwort Benson valued the 75% 
stake at $1.6-1.7 bln) and the investment required of the auction winner will be 
$400 million. There will be another auction for a 21.25% stake later in the 
year. The company’s employees will have opportunity to purchase the remaining 
3.85% of shares at a reduced price.  

Russian oil firm YUKSI, a recently created company combining YUKOS and Sibneft, 
will cut 1998 production and refining due to decline in world oil prices. In 
1997, the total production volume of all YUKSI subsidiaries was 65 million 
tonnes and the volume of refining was 43.4 million tonnes.  

Noyabrskneftegas plans to decrease oil production by 7 million tonnes this year. 
The well drilling volumes will go down from 790 thousand metres to 480 thousand 
metres. Significant changes are expected in the company’s top management.  

Alpha Group acquired 1.17% of Tyumen Oil Co. (TNK) shares for R123.68 million 
($20.37 million) in an auction at which 48.68% of the firm was offered. Since 
before the auction Alfa Group owned a 49% stake in TNK, it currently has a 
controlling interest in the company.  

Surgutneftegas, Russia’s third largest oil group by output, is ready to issue 
level-1 ADRs on its preferred shares. The Bank of New York will serve as the 
depository for the company’s ADR program. In the next three years Surgutneftegas 
plans to produce 34-35 million tonnes of oil per year. The company is not 
planning to exchange shares of its subsidiaries to shares of the holding.  

The Tatneft’s level-2 ADRs will be listed on NYSE on March 30, 1998. The 
company’s ADR road show is scheduled for next week.  

 Energy  
  
In 1996, the net loss of Kuzbassenergo was $156 million in IAS. At the same 
time, the company’s financial statements prepared according to the Russian 
Accounting Standards showed a $55 net profit.  

 Telecommunications  
  
Issues in the agenda of the annual shareholders meeting of Electrosvyaz of 
Irkutsk region will include limiting the number of shares and election of the 
director general. The current director general will probably be the only 
candidature. The company’s board will recommend the meeting to approve Price 
Waterhouse as the company’s auditor.  

The US SEC accepted a request from Kazan City Telephone to issue level-1 ADRs. 
The company’s road shows will take place in New York City, San Diego, Boston, 
Chicago, London, Geneva, and Zurich in April. The placement of ADRs is scheduled 
for August 1998. The Bank of New York will serve as a depository for the 
program.  

In the second half of 1998, Svyazinvest management will consider possibility of 
merging of telecom operators located in the same geographical areas. At present, 
several telecommunications companies controlled by Svyazinvest are operating in 
such regions as St. Petersburg territory, Ekaterinburg territory, Kostroma 
territory, Moscow territory, and Rostov territory.  

Murmanskelectrosvyaz plans to issue ADRs in the second half of the year.  

Uraltelecom of Sverdlovsk region prepares to issue level-1 ADRs by the end of 
1998.  

There are four Russian regional telecoms that have issued level-1 ADRs by now: 
Uralsvyazinform of Perm region, Tyumentelecom, Svyazinform of Nizhegorodsk 
region, Kubanelectrosvyaz (Krasnodar territory). Several telecoms prepare to 
issue ADRs: Petersburg Telephone Network, Khantymansiiskokrtelecom, Electrosvyz 
of Rostov region and Svyazinform of Chelyabinsk region.  

 Other Companies  

In 1997, operating loss of Izhorskie Plants was $31 million compared to $33 
million of operating profit in 1996.  

The shareholders meeting of Magnitogorsk Metallurgical Plant (MMK) will be held 
on April 14, 1998, in Moscow. Among the items of the agenda is the issue of 
replacement of the company’s director general. The list of candidates for the 
position include the director general of Magnitogorsk Steel financial industrial 
group and a current first deputy director general of the company.  

At the extraordinary shareholders meeting of Akrikhin, a major pharmaceuticals 
producer, it was decided to issue GDRs. The Bank of New York will be its 
depository. The company will conduct road shows in London and New York in April 
1998.  

On March 20, 1998, the statement about the restructuring of debts of KamAZ will 
be signed. The meeting of the company’s board of directors will be held on the 
same day. The board will decide on the date of the extraordinary shareholders 
meeting that is expected to make a decision regarding additional issue of 
shares. The issue proceeds will be used to repay some of the company’s debts.  

Federal Securities Commission registered the issue of the common and preferred 
shares of AutoVAZ with a par value of R500 (about $80) on March 18, 1998. The 
“old” shares with a par value of R1,000 will be converted to the shares of the 
new issue.  
  
 
