
        The Central Bank of the Russian Federation (Bank of
        Russia) was founded on July 13, 1990, on the basis
        of the Russian Republic Bank of the State Bank of
        the USSR. Accountable to the Supreme Soviet of the
        RSFSR, it was originally called the State Bank of
        the RSFSR.

        On December 2, 1990, the Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR
        passed the Law on the Central Bank of the RSFSR
        (Bank of Russia), which declared the Bank of Russia
        a legal entity and the main bank of the RSFSR,
        accountable to the Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR. The
        law defined the functions of the bank in organising
        money circulation, monetary regulation, foreign
        economic activity and regulation of the activities
        of joint-stock and co-operative banks.

        In June 1991 the Statute of the Central Bank of the
        RSFSR (Bank of Russia), accountable to the Supreme
        Soviet of the RSFSR, was approved.

        In November 1991 due to the establishment of the
        Commonwealth of Independent States and the
        dissolution of the Union structures, the Supreme
        Soviet of the RSFSR declared the Central Bank of the
        RSFSR the only organ of state monetary and foreign
        currency regulation of the economy on the territory
        of the RSFSR. The functions of the State Bank of the
        USSR in issuing money and setting the rouble
        exchange rate were transferred to it. The Central
        Bank of the RSFSR was instructed to assume before
        January 1, 1992, full economic and other control of
        the assets, technical facilities and other resources
        of the State Bank of the USSR and all its
        institutions, enterprises and organisations.

        On December 20, 1991, the State Bank of the USSR was
        disbanded and all its assets and liabilities and
        also all its property in the RSFSR were transferred
        to the Central Bank of the RSFSR (Bank of Russia),
        which several months later was renamed the Central
        Bank of the Russian Federation (Bank of Russia).
        In 1991-1992 an extensive network of commercial
        banks was created in the Russian Federation under
        Bank of Russia guidance through commercialisation of
        the specialised banks' affiliates. The disbandment
        of the State Bank of the USSR was followed by
        changes in the chart of accounts, the establishment
        of a network of Central Bank cash settlement centres
        and their provision with computer technology. The
        Central Bank began to buy and sell foreign exchange
        in the currency market it established and to set and
        publish the official exchange rates of foreign
        currencies against the rouble.

        In December 1992 as a result of the establishment of
        a single centralised federal treasury system,
        accountable to the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of
        Russia was no longer required to fulfil the
        functions of cash servicing of the federal budget.

        The Bank of Russia carries out its functions, which
        were established by the Constitution of the Russian
        Federation (Article 75) and the Law on the Central
        Bank of the Russian Federation (Bank of Russia)
        (Article 22), independently from the federal
        government structures, the government structures of
        the constituent subjects of the Federation and the
        local self-government bodies.

        In 1992-1995 to maintain stability of the banking
        system the Bank of Russia set up a system of
        supervision and inspection of the commercial banks
        and a system of foreign exchange regulation and
        foreign exchange control. As an agent of the
        Ministry of Finance, it organised a government
        securities market, known as the GKO market, and
        began to participate in its operations.

        On April 26, 1995, the Bank of Russia terminated
        direct lending to finance the federal budget deficit
        and stopped extending centralised targeted credits
        to individual industries and sectors of the economy.

