  
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  

On May 19, 1998, Russia’s Central Bank increased its refinancing rate to 50% 
from 30% and 3-30 day Lombard rates to 50%. 

According to Mikhail Zadornov, Russia’s Minister of Finance, the ministry plans 
to repurchase several GKO issues while the prices are low. The Finance Ministry 
plans to issue GKO in documentary form in early June, and the corresponding 
decree has already been signed. The government plans to decrease GKO yields to 
20% by the end of 1998. 

World Bank supported the actions taken by the Russian government and the Central 
Bank to stabilise the financial and economical situation in the country. 

Russia’s communist party started to collect votes of State Duma deputies to 
initiate the procedure of Boris Yeltsin impeachment. 
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas  

Oil companies UKOS and LUKoil, and Gazprom are going to start a joint oil 
exploration project in the northern part of Russia’s sector of Caspian sea. The 
companies are expected to establish a joint venture with equal ownership shares. 

Russia’s Federal Arbitration Court confirmed the legality of sale of 51% stake 
in Sibneft’s that took place in May 1997. 

LUKoil plans to increase by 20 million the number of authorised preferred 
shares. The shares will be used to acquire Sidanko. 

German Dresdner Bank along with Goldman Sachs and ABN-AMRO prepares a syndicated 
loan worth more than $1 bln for Gazprom. 

According to LUKoil’s president Vagit Alekperov, Gazprom-LUKoil-Shell consortium 
will probably not submit its bid to participate in the Rosneft auction. 

Tyumen Oil Company (TNK) is planning to complete preparatory work to issue high-
yield bonds worth $300-500 mln within two months. TNK signed an agreement with 
German bank West LB to receive an 18-month syndicated loan worth $300 mln. The 
company is not going to decrease its exports in 1998. TNK plans to acquire 
controlling stakes in several upstream subsidiaries of Nizhnevartovskneftegas, 
including Belozerneft, Priobneft, Nizhnevartovskneft, and Samotlorneft. 

Eastern Oil Company (VNK) received two loans from Menatep bank worth R156 mln 
and R237 mln to pay its debts to the budget. 

 Energy   

German energy company Preussen Elektra increased its stake in Lenenergo from 5% 
to 7.64%. In the first quarter of 1998, the net loss of Lenenergo was R31 mln, 
compared to R12 mln of net profit in the first quarter of 1997. 

By mid-June 1998, Marienergo plans to prepare its financial documents in 
accordance with international accounting standards. 

 Telecommunications  

Petersburg Telephone Network (PTS) plans to reduce its ownership stakes in 
different joint stock companies by 30% because of low return on these 
investments. The funds received from divesting the stakes will be used to 
finance capital investment projects and to supplement the company’s working 
capital. Currently, PTS owns stakes in more than 30 companies. 

A 7.11% stake in Svyazinform of Chelyabinsk region will be sold at a tender with 
investment conditions. The starting price for the stake is R82 mln. Foreign 
investors are allowed to participate in the tender. The results will be 
announced on July 9, 1998. The winner will need to implement a $20 mln 
investment programme. 

A commercial tender with investment conditions to sell 21.75% of preferred 
shares of Central Telegraph will be held in late May or early June. 

Kubanelectrosvyaz will put off placement of 600,000 shares of its additional 
issue. The company is considering a Level-2 ADRs programme. Currently, Arthur 
Andersen is completing the audit of 1996 and 1997 financial statements and 
restating them in accordance with GAAP. On February 5, 1998, the US SEC 
registered the company’s Level-1 ADRs that are currently traded on NASDAQ as 
well as on Berlin and Frankfurt stock exchanges. 

The board of directors of Nizhegorodsvyazinform voted against an additional 
issue of shares. 

 Other Companies 

Moscow confectionery Red October will consider an ADRs issue in September or 
October 1998. 

The Scientific Centre concern plans to go ahead with an additional share issue 
in the next two or three months. The new shares will be exchanged for 
controlling stakes in several companies including electronics producer Kvant. It 
is planned to complete the exchange by fall 1998. 

In 1997, Ingostrakh’s insurance premiums collected increased 43% year-on-year 
and exceeded R1.2 bln. The pretax profit was R73.1 million. By the end of this 
year, the company plans to open 12 more regional representations. The government 
currently owns an 8.5% stake in Ingostrakh. 

In accordance with research conducted by Price Waterhouse, the number of the 
mergers and acquisitions in the world’s pharmaceutical industry increased by 49% 
in 1997 compared to 1996. That demonstrates continuing consolidation processes 
in this sector. The industry observers expect more mergers in the years to come, 
since the largest producers control only 5-6% of the world’s pharmaceuticals 
market. The total amount of all M&A deals was $46.7 bln in 1997, compared to 
53.7 bln in 1996. 
  
 
