 
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  

During the week, the government took several steps to stabilise the situation in 
the financial markets. To support the rouble and improve the situation in the 
GKO market, the Central Bank tripled its refinancing and Lombard rates to 150% 
on May 27, 1998. The government has also started to implement changes in its 
monetary and fiscal policy. The announced programme of spending cuts will shave 
42 billion roubles off the 1998 budget. Measures are also taken to increase 
budget revenues through improved tax collection.  

Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Russia’s ceiling for foreign currency bonds 
and notes to B1 and the country ceiling for foreign currency bank deposits to 
B2. All Ba3-rated foreign currency bonds of the Russian Federation and Russian 
regional issuers have been downgraded to B1. Moody’s also lowered credit ratings 
of ten Russian banks.  

On Friday, President Boris Yeltsin removed Alexander Pochinok, the head of the 
Russian state tax service. Pochinok will be replaced by Boris Fyodorov – former 
Russian finance minister and a well-known figure in the international financial 
community. He once worked at the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development.  

Turnover at MICEX grew by 30% in 1997 to $253.8 bln.  
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas  

The auction to sell 75% plus one share of Rosneft planned for May 26, 1998, did 
not take place because no bids were submitted. The minimum price of $2.1 billion 
for the 75% stake in Rosneft plus $400 million in investments set by the 
government was obviously too high. The price was based on a valuation conducted 
in March by independent financial advisers at Kleinwort Benson, with a premium 
added on for the fact that the buyer would be getting effective control. Despite 
the fact that there was a number of interested investors included Gazprom, 
Shell, Uneximbank, LUKoil, British Petroleum and Elf Aquitaine, the government 
received no bids at the auction. The new date for the auction will be announced 
on May 30 or June 1, 1998. The valuation committee is likely to lower the 
minimum price to account for changes in the economic environment and oil prices 
on the international market. The bids will be accepted until July 16 or 17, 
1998.  

Rosneft’s president Yuri Bespalov and the board of directors chairman Alexander 
Putilov were removed by the government as a result of the auction’s failure.  

YUKOS and Sibneft called off their planned merger. According to the statement 
released by the companies to news agencies, the two companies will focus instead 
on restructuring individually in view of recent volatility in the Russian 
capital markets and the continued weak oil price. The primary reason for this 
decision is believed to be disagreements between the merger’s architects – 
YUKOS-Rosprom head Mikhail Khodorkovsky and Sibneft investor Boris Berezovsky.  
 
