 
  
	Company Info  
	History  

Profit House financial company was established in Moscow on May 23, 1994, to 
which effect the Moscow Registration Chamber issued registration certificate 
¹165.062.  

On November 16, 1994, on the basis of  license ¹674 issued by the Department of 
Finance of the Government of Moscow, Profit House received the status of  a 
financial company, an investment consultant, and an investment company.  

With expiration of the previously issued licenses on October 17, 1997, Profit 
House received a new license ¹000-00159-210100 issued by the Federal Securities 
Commission (FSC). The license covers broker trading including operations with 
private individuals, dealer trading, depository and custody services.  

On May 26, 1995, Profit House became one of the first fifty members of the 
Professional Association of Securities Market Participants (PAUFOR). The company 
was authorized to execute trades in the Russian Trading System (RTS), which is 
the Russian automated quotation system.  
In early 1996, Profit House became a market-maker in the RTS.  

On May 31, 1996, Profit House was authorized by the Central Bank of Russia to 
act as a dealer in the government debt securities market.  

On November 13, 1997, Profit House became a member of the equities department of 
the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX).  

On November 24, 1997, Profit House became a member of the Moscow Stock Exchange 
(MSE).  
  
	Company Structure  
Profit House currently employs more than 50 people. The company comprises:  

equity and equity derivatives trading department;  
fixed income trading department;  
asset management department;  
back-office;  
research department;  
client relations department;  
law department.  
  
  
	Main Lines of Business  
Profit House was created when the Russian securities market was in its infancy. 
As the market developed, we strengthened our positions by improving the 
company’s organisational and technical infrastructure and accumulating the 
expertise. Profit House has a reputation of a competent and trustworthy partner, 
that is the primary reason behind the steady growth of our domestic and foreign 
client base.  

As a participant of the capital market, our company is under influence of all 
changes in the economic and political environment in the country. We are 
prepared to meet change by quickly adapting our operations to current market 
conditions. 1995 and the first half of 1996 were marked by the very high yields 
on government bonds (up to 100% in US dollar terms). Correspondingly, more than 
half of all our investments were in the fixed income securities. At that time, 
corporate equities accounted for only 6% of the value of our investment 
portfolio and they included only the “blue-chip” stocks. The gradual decline of 
the government debt yields reduced the attractiveness of the fixed income 
securities. The dynamically developing stock market was determined as the 
primary line of business.  

Profit House is an active participant in the stock market. The company performs 
broker-dealer trading in equities of more than 180 Russian companies. Operations 
with the liquid “blue-chip” equities including long-term investments, 
speculative operations and equity forwards account for about 50% of the 
company’s equities trading volume.  Transactions with equities listed in the 
RTS-2 account for about 30%. Besides, Profit House actively works with less 
liquid growth stocks that have no RTS listing. Our company has a developed 
regional network of agents that allows us to buy shares of different issuers for 
our clients on favourable terms.  

In 1997, Profit House has significantly increased operations with the most 
liquid equities listed in RTS-1. The trading volume in September 1997 exceeded 
$20 million. Our company is among the leading participants of RTS-2 that was 
created in December 1996. In September 1997, Profit House accounted for 6.2% of 
the total RTS-2 trading volume. The total trading volume of the company was 
$55.5 million in RTS-1 and $15.6 million in RTS-2.  
  
	Trading Volumes   
in the Russian   
Trading System
 	Information about issuers and analysis of this information are the keys to 
effective operation of Profit House. Our research department performs research 
and prepares information that is used by all divisions of the company and 
offered to our clients. Our analysts use the fundamental research and analysis 
to uncover possible mispricings that become profitable investment opportunities. 
To forecast the earnings of target companies, they consider many macroeconomic 
indicators, local, industry and company news, as well as factors of the 
political environment. The analytical information, including comparative 
analyses of companies in one industry and analyses of specific companies, is of 
critical importance in making portfolio composition and asset management 
decisions.  

Profit House recognised the potential of asset management services as early as 
in 1995, when few investors were willing to invest in the Russian securities 
market. With macroeconomic and political stabilisation, improving infrastructure 
of the securities markets and growing professionalism of the markets’ 
participants, more and more domestic and foreign investors perceive Russian 
securities to be suitable investment instruments.  

Access to different sectors of the Russian capital markets and our unique 
expertise allow Profit House to offer its clients diversified portfolios and to 
maximise expected return without exceeding the acceptable level of risk.  

In an effort to provide the highest quality services to our clients, Profit 
House created the Client Service Department. We build trusting relationships 
with every client regardless of the amount of the investment. Striving to give 
our clients the service they want, our professionals develop individualised 
investment strategies for every client. Profit House is happy to share its 
expertise and information with clients. Every investor receives our research 
products and periodical statements detailing transactions, positions and 
performance. This information is also available at any time upon the client’s 
request.  
  

  
