
          Legal Status

          The status, purposes, functions, powers and
          principles of organisation and work of the Bank of
          Russia are legislatively determined by the
          Constitution of the Russian Federation, the Federal
          Law on the Central Bank of the Russian Federation
          (Bank of Russia) and other federal laws. In
          accordance with the Constitution, the main task of
          the Bank of Russia is to protect and ensure the
          stability of the rouble. In accordance with Article
          3 of the Federal Law on the Cental Bank, the main
          objectives of the Bank of Russia are to strengthen
          the purchasing power and exchange rate of the
          rouble against other currencies, promote the
          development and enhancement of the Russian banking
          system and ensure the efficient and uninterrupted
          functioning of the settlements system. The Bank of
          Russia performs these functions independently from
          the bodies of state power (Article 75 of the
          Constitution of the Russian Federation and Article
          5 of the Federal Law on the Central Bank of the
          Russian Federation). Making profit is not part of
          the Bank of Russia's activities.

          The principle of independence, a key element in the
          Central Bank's status, is manifest, above all, in
          the fact that the Bank of Russia is not included in
          the structure of federal bodies of state power and
          acts as a special institution with the exclusive
          right to issue money and organise money
          circulation. The Central Bank's independent status
          is confirmed in Articles 1, 2 and 5 of the Federal
          Law on the Central Bank of the Russian Federation
          (Bank of Russia). The Bank of Russia is a legal
          entity and subject to public law. Its statutory
          capital and other properties are part of federal
          property. The powers to keep, use and manage Bank
          of Russia property are exercised by the Bank of
          Russia alone, and no one can confiscate this
          property or burden it with obligations without the
          Bank of Russia's consent. The Central Bank's
          financial independence is also indicated by the
          fact that it takes its expenditures out of its own
          revenues and it is not registered with the tax
          authorities.

          The state is not liable for the Bank of Russia's
          obligations, just as the Bank of Russia is not
          liable for the obligations of the state (unless
          they have assumed such obligations). In accordance
          with Article 5 of the Federal Law on the Central
          Bank, neither the federal bodies of state power,
          the bodies of state power of the constituent
          territories of the Russian Federation nor the
          bodies of local self-government have the right to
          interfere in the Bank of Russia's activities.
          Should any of them do so, the Bank of Russia will
          make such interference known to the State Duma and
          the President. In addition, the Bank of Russia has
          the right to defend its status and powers in courts
          of law.

          The Bank of Russia is accountable to the State Duma
          of the Federal Assembly, which appoints and
          discharges the Chairman of the Bank of Russia (at
          the representation of the President of the Russian
          Federation) and members of the Bank of Russia's
          Board of Directors as well as appoints an auditor
          to the Bank of Russia and approves the Bank of
          Russia's annual report and auditor's report.


