
        Payments System

        The payments system as a sum total of
        organisational forms, instruments and procedures
        facilitating the circulation of money is of great
        importance for the implementation of an effective
        monetary policy by the Bank of Russia. The
        settlements procedure, forms and rules in the
        Russian Federation are binding on all economic
        agents, enterprises, organisations and private
        individuals. The forms of non-cash settlements are
        determined by the Civil Code of the Russian
        Federation.

        The main forms of non-cash settlements are payments
        orders; payment claims (for collection) are used
        less frequently and letters of credit and cheques
        are even less common.

        A part of settlements by legal entities and natural
        persons is implemented by means of payment cards,
        which are gaining ever wider acceptance. Commercial
        banks issue their own payment cards, Russian system
        cards (STB Card, Union Card and Zolotaya Korona)
        and international payment cards, such as VISA,
        Eurocard/MasterCard, Diners Club, JCB and American
        Express.

        The Bank of Russia sees to it that the system of
        settlements functions smoothly, rapidly and
        reliably. Most payments are made through the Bank
        of Russia settlements system. Statistics for
        October 1997 indicate that there were 1,490 cash
        settlement centres and other Bank of Russia
        institutions in Russia, which provided cash
        settlement services for 1,756 credit organisations
        and their 4,584 branches and kept the accounts of
        the budgets of all levels, state extra-budgetary
        funds, federal treasury bodies and other legal
        entities in the cases stipulated by applicable
        legislation.

        The Bank of Russia has put out a Bank
        Identification Code Directory for the Russian
        Federation (Spravochnik BIK RF), which contains the
        names of credit organisations participating in
        settlements, their bank identification codes, their
        correspondent accounts in the Bank of Russia,
        addresses and other data. The Directory is
        regularly updated.

        The credit organisations located in the Russian
        Federation (resident credit organisations) and
        having Central Bank licence to conduct banking
        operations can open only one correspondent account
        in one of the Bank of Russia institutions (a cash
        settlement centre or operation division), which
        services them. The branches of credit organisations
        have correspondent subaccounts, but some branches
        make settlements through the parent bank's
        correspondent account only.

        To effect non-cash settlements legal entities and
        natural persons open accounts in commercial banks
        and in some cases legal entities may open accounts
        in Bank of Russia institutions. Settlements between
        clients of one bank and those of another and their
        settlements with the budget and extrabudgetary
        funds are made through correspondent accounts only.
        As for the settlements between the clients of one
        bank, they are effected by debiting or crediting to
        the clients' accounts, bypassing the bank's
        correspondent account. Settlements between the
        banks located in one city or banks serviced by one
        computer centre are often effected through the
        mutual settlements account. All information on the
        settlement documents, processed in a commercial
        bank in accordance with the established procedure,
        is loaded into a computer. The bank's correspondent
        account in a cash settlement centre only registers
        the balance of the operations conducted. Such
        settlements are a kind of local clearing.

        Settlements between the cash settlement centres on
        operations by credit organisations and their own
        operations are made through the interbranch
        turnover accounts (MFO), and the MFO letter of
        advice is the instrument of interbranch
        settlements.

        The correctness of the settlements made by the cash
        settlement centres is confirmed by matching the
        initial and reply turnovers in the process of
        offsetting, that is, comparing each reply entry
        with the initial entry. Payments are made provided
        that there is money in the correspondent accounts
        and within the amount kept in the account. Should a
        bank fall short of funds, the priority in which
        money is debited to the correspondent accounts for
        creditworthy clients' payments and for the bank's
        own payments is established by the Civil Code of
        the Russian Federation. In that case, unpaid
        settlement documents are placed in a file with the
        bank's correspondent account.

        Payments are made by mail or by telegraph (paper
        method) and by electronic mail (paperless method).
        The share of electronic payments increases in
        number and sum of documents passed due to decrease
        in share of the postal and telegraphic payments.

        In accordance with the Federal Law on the Central
        Bank of the Russian Federation (Bank of Russia),
        the non-cash settlement term must not exceed two
        operating days inside a constituent territory of
        the Russian Federation and five operating days
        within the Russian Federation. A part of interbank
        settlements, such as the settlements of
        multi-branch banks, including the settlements
        involved in a re-distribution of credit resources,
        are conducted between the parent bank and its
        branches and between bank branches, these
        settlements being recorded in their on-balance
        accounts. Intrabank settlements are rapidly gaining
        ground. Interbank settlements are also made through
        correspondent accounts opened with other banks. The
        procedure for opening such accounts and the
        operating conditions of the correspondent account
        of one bank with another bank are established by
        agreement between the banks. The operations
        conducted with the correspondent accounts of the
        correspondent banks are divided into two major
        categories: the operations based on the servicing
        of clients and the interbank operations proper. The
        former include the operations in the clients'
        commercial transactions; the latter comprise credit
        operations, transactions in buying and selling
        currencies, funds trading in the money market, and
        so on. The banks that have a developed
        correspondent network can effect settlements with
        maximum speed and they create their own settlement
        systems. The development of correspondent relations
        depends on various factors: mutual payment flows,
        the price of credits and demand for them in the
        market, the possibility of participating in trading
        at the regional currency exchanges, etc.
        Settlements between the correspondent banks account
        for a large part of Russia's entire payments
        turnover. A large part of settlements with CIS and
        other foreign banks is effected by this means.
        Settlements through clearing houses is yet another
        means of interbank settlements. There are two
        underlying models of clearing operations. One model
        does not require the participating banks to deposit
        funds in advance in their accounts in a clearing
        institution. In this case it is the Central Bank
        that makes the final settlement. The other model
        requires that the participating banks deposit funds
        in advance in their accounts with a clearing
        institution. The settling agent in this case is the
        clearing institution.

        The Clearing House of the Interbank Finance House
        is to begin operating in 1997 in Moscow using the
        first model. Statistics for October 1997 indicate
        that there were seven clearing institutions
        operating in accordance with the second model and
        nearly 200 credit organisations, branches and other
        legal entities carried out settlements though them.
        At present the share of settlements conducted
        through them is small. The Bank of Russia plays a
        leading role in elaborating the principles of
        organising clearing operations and monitors
        compliance with these principles.

        The strategy for the development of the national
        payments system in Russia, formulated in 1996,
        envisages a series of long-term and medium-term
        measures. These include the creation of a
        settlements system operating in real time, that is,
        transition to a qualitatively new method of
        transmitting banking information, the development
        of non-governmental settlement and clearing systems
        with the corresponding regulation and supervision
        of their activities, the establishment of
        procedures for standardising and certifying banking
        technologies, and creation of conditions for
        introducing settlements by payment (plastic) cards.
        The main objective of the Methodology and
        Organisation of Settlements Department is to ensure
        efficient and uninterrupted functioning of the
        settlements system on the basis of a single policy
        on non-cash settlements.

        This Department is concerned with non-cash
        settlements effected in roubles on the territory of
        the Russian Federation and it works out the rules,
        forms, deadlines and standards of non-cash
        settlements and supervises the passage of
        operations through the Bank of Russia settlement
        network. For this purpose the Department develops
        the methods of identifying the participants in
        settlements, examines the payments turnover and
        analyses the state of the various settlement and
        payment systems.

        Latest update on December 29, 1997.


