 
  
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  

President Boris Yeltsin named former first deputy prime minister Boris Nemtsov 
and deputy finance minister Viktor Khristenko deputy prime ministers in the new 
government. Finance Minister Mikhail Zadornov, Defence Minister Igor Sergeyev, 
Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov, Minister on Emergency Situations Sergei 
Shoigu, and Railroad Transportation Minister Nikolay Aksenenko all kept their 
jobs.  
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas  

Russia’s Accounting Chamber recommended the government to exclude Transneft from 
the privatisation programme for 1998. According to the draft plan of the 
programme, 50% minus 1 share of Transneft should be privatised and 50% plus one 
share should be secured in the federal property.  

British Petroleum intends to purchase a 24% minus one share stake of Central 
Fuel Company.  

Oil extracting of Slavneft decreased by 4.8% to 12.3 million tonnes in 1997.  

Tyumen Oil Company (TNK) signed an agreement with a Western bank to receive a 
$300 mln loan for 2 years. The funds will be used to supplement the company’s 
working capital.  

 Energy   

On April 27, 1998, Russia’s Federal Securities Commission registered the issue 
of 23,040 million common shares of Mosenergo.  

Beginning with April 23, 1998, The Bank of New York stopped converting common 
shares of Russia’s UES into ADRs because of the approved law that limits share 
of foreign investors to 25% of the company’s shareholder capital.  

Russia’s Accounting Chamber completed its legislation compliance investigation 
of the extraordinary shareholders meeting of Russia’s UES that took place April 
4th. Barbican Securities, a Cyprus firm, voted for Anatoliy Chubais and Boris 
Brevnov to be included in the board of directors, although Barbican Securities 
is not included in the share register of Russia’s UES. The Accounting Chamber’s 
auditors uncovered many violations of procedures that took place during 
preparing and conducting the shareholders meeting.  

 Telecommunications  

MGTS, the largest Russian telecommunications company serving the city of Moscow, 
raised charter capital by 50%. 638,634 common shares will be transferred to the 
Moscow Committee for Science and Technology controlled by the Moscow city 
government, in accordance with a controversial 1995 privatisation plan.  

 Other Companies  
  
Volzhskii Tube Plant signed a first contract worth $5 mln to supply tubes to 
Saudi Aramco, the largest oil producer and the largest consumer of oil refinery 
equipment and tubes in Saudi Arabia. Saudi Aramco produces more than 500 mln 
tonnes of oil per year (all Russian oil companies produced 305 million tonnes of 
oil in 1997). 

The Ministry of State Property and Russia’s Fund of Federal Property announced 
an open tender to conduct valuation of shares of Novosibirsk Electrode Plant. 
The results of the tender will be announced on May 30, 1998. 

Russian mining concern Norilsk Nickel received a $110 mln syndicated loan from a 
consortium of Western banks. Deliveries of Norilsk copper will serve as a 
collateral for the loan. The funds will be used to finance the company’s 
production modernisation programme. 
  
	 
