 
  
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  

Boris Yeltsin has signed a decree on a 50% decrease of tariffs charged by 
Russia’s UES and Gazprom for enterprises and organisations that pay for 
electricity and gas on time.  

On July 24, Russia’s foreign exchange and gold reserves totalled $19.2 bln, 
compared to $13.6 bln a week earlier.  

Prime Minister Sergei Kiriyenko and other government officials including Finance 
Minister Mikhail Zadornov and Central Bank President Sergei Dubinin met with 
foreign investors July 30 to discuss steps taken by the government to implement 
the stabilisation programme. The Finance Minister said that tax revenues in July 
would exceed the level of June by about 500 million roubles. The results of the 
meeting were positively perceived by most participants of the stock market.  

Fitch IBCA has cut Russia’s long-term foreign currency borrowing rating from BB 
to BB-. Short-term rating has been left unchanged at B. Worsening of financial 
situation was cited as the primary reason of the decrease. Fitch IBCA has cut 
long-term foreign currency borrowing rating of St. Petersburg, Krasnoyarsk 
region, Leningrad region and Komi republic from BB to BB-. The agency has also 
cut long-term rating of Tatneft, Sibneft and Russia’s Sberbank from BB to BB-.  
  
	GOVERNMENT SECURITIES MARKET  

On July 28, yield on GKOs with long maturities grew from 78% to 83%. The yield 
decreased to 75% on Wednesday and further fell to 68-70% on Friday.  

According to Boris Nemtsov, the Russian government intends to restructure the 
country’s internal GKOs debt totalling R140 bln in 1998.  

The placement auction for the first issue of GFO (state federal bonds, bearer 
securities similar to GKO) was cancelled because of the unfavourable situation 
in the state debt market.  
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas  

Starting with July 29, 1998, Yuganskneftegas shareholders will be offered to 
exchange its shares for YUKOS shares in Nefteyugansk. One common share of 
Yuganskneftegas will be equal to 3 shares of YUKOS; one preferred share of the 
company will be exchanged for 1.5 shares of the holding. A similar conversion 
will take place for Samaraneftegas shares; 0.6 and 0.3 shares of YUKOS will be 
offered for one common or preferred share of Samaraneftegas, respectively.  

By the end of 1998, Russia’s government plans to sell a 5% stake in Gazprom out 
of the state holding of 40.9%. According to, Russia’s fuel and energy minister, 
Shell and ENI have expressed interest in acquiring Gazprom shares out of this 
stake.  

Gazprom may cut gas production by 10% if the share of cash receipts in its 
revenues does not increase. At present, cash accounts for only 14.25% of the 
company’s domestic sales revenues.  

Alliance has been selected to act as the external management of oil company 
Rosneft. The deadline for submitting bids has been moved to October 27. The 
results will be announced on October 30.  

Russia’s Federal Property Fund plans to announce tenders for stakes in LUKoil, 
Slavneft and NORSI-oil by the end of August.  

Conoco Petroleum International has purchased 15.7% of shares of 
Arkhangelskgeoldobycha (AGD). LUKoil owns a controlling stake of AGD and Rosneft 
holds a stake representing 25.5% of AGD’s charter capital.  

 Energy   

The share of cash payments by customers of the fuel and energy industry during 
the first half of 1998 was 17.2% of the total amount of payments, compared to 
20.6% and 21.1% in the same periods of 1997 and 1996, respectively.  
  Electric Power Output in the first half of 1998 compared to the first half of 
1997 (mln kWt/h):  
	 Company
 	1 H'98 
	1 H'97 
	 Mosenergo
 	32,300  
	34,600  
	 Novgorodenergo
 	411.77  
	339  
	 Stavropolenergo
 	792.9  
	698.6  

 Telecommunications  

According to Marina Chekurova, Russian Federal Property Fund’s (RFFI) vice-
chairman, a starting price of the 25% minus two shares stake in Svyazinvest will 
not exceed its market price. It has also been announced that RFFI would not sell 
shares of telecom companies until the Svyazinvest tender takes place. RFFI has 
chosen Merrill Lynch and HSBC as financial consultants of Svyazinvest tender. 
RFFI will sign agreement with the two companies as soon as Boris Yeltsin signs 
the decree that allows foreigners to participate in the tender. The tender has 
been postponed due to the unfavourable situation in the financial markets.  

RFFI has announced that deadline for submitting bids to take part in the tender 
for a 22% stake in Electrosvyaz of Moscow region would be moved to September 
25.  

RFFI has also moved the deadline for the tender of Svyazinform of Chelyabinsk 
region to September 24.  

Bashinformsvyaz plans to register its Level-1 ADRs at the US SEC in early 
September 1998. There will not be any restrictions on conversion of the 
company’s shares into ADRs.  

Svyazinform of Samara region has started working on its Level-1 ADR programme. 
The company plans to issue ADRs in the fall 1998.  

 Other Companies  
  
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development intends to buy shares of 
Babaevsky confectionery concern. The EBRD will also participate in other 
projects of development of Russia’s food-processing industry.  

By July 29, shareholders of Izhorskie Works have exchanged 53% of the company’s 
common shares (48% of the company’s charter capital) for shares of Uralmash 
Works. By now, all of the largest investors have completed the share swap. They 
include CSFB, Citibank, Chase Manhattan Bank, CIS Emerging Growth, Troika-
Dialog, Crawford Holdings and Pruet Enterprises.  

Tatarstan government intends to conduct a tender to sell a 51% stake in 
Nizhnekamsk Tire Plant, which produces more than 40% of all tires made in 
Russia, to a strategic investor. The bids to participate in the tender will be 
accepted until August 11. The Tatarstan government positively views GoodYear’s 
intention to buy the stake. At the same time, it continues conducting 
negotiations with other potential buyers including Bridgstone and Michelin.  
  
	  
