Aeroflot saw its dollar sales fall by 23% in Q1 1999 vs. the same period of 1998 
despite 4.9% growth in the number of passengers transported and a constant 
figure for passenger turnover. The fall in sales is due to discounts offered by 
the carrier on its (dollar-denominated) tickets in the post-crisis price war. 
Because the company is a net exporter (i.e. its hard currency-based income 
exceeds its hard currency-based expenses) profitability ratios have had a 
positive trend. However, Aeroflot has been operating below break-even point. 
The air transport business has a seasonal nature, and the first quarter is 
regularly the worst quarter. We therefore view the Q1 sales and revenues figures 
as better than could have been expected. 
It is important to note that rates of reduction in receivables turnover at 
Aeroflot have been higher than rates of reduction of payables. The company has 
thus been pushed into liquidity problems and has held up some payments. The main 
reason for this problem, in our view, is the growing burden of leasing payments 
in the aftermath of ruble devaluation. Leasing payments will grow from 13% of 
1998 sales to 15.5% of projected 1999 revenue. 
We think that the company's finances will depend first and foremost on cost of 
restructuring in the period up to the end of this year. All else being equal, 
growth in the price of aviation fuel and lubricants may trigger growth of 
overall costs by as much as 20%. The maximum cost reduction potential for 
Aeroflot is by internalizing maintenance of its Western-made aircraft. The 
company's general director said that Aeroflot planned to start doing its own 
current maintenance and support of Western-made aircraft as early as midsummer. 
We estimate that this can generate economies that will completely compensate 
growth in the price of aviation fuel. However, it is hard to predict the exact 
quantities on each side of this equation. 
We see Aeroflot finances as being apt to instability in the long term. However, 
H1 financial results are unlikely to disappoint investors, and we believe that 
investing in Aeroflot shares is an attractive option over a 2-3 month time 
period. Buying for any longer period is associated with considerable risks.

* On Monday August 2, Russian stock market showed very low activity. Despite 
positive news on Paris Club decision regarding former USSR debt restructuring, 
investors seemed to remain more conscious about the results of currently 
undergoing negotiations between Russian Finance Minister Mr. Kasyanov and the 
London Club of creditors. In the afternoon prices were pushed up 1.7% however in 
the absence of buyers market fell and closed 0.62% down at 115.77. Daily trading 
volume was low $8.96 mln. Rostelecom was a loser for the day fallen by 2.4% to 
$1.43 while Sberbank showed today's sharpest increase - 2.52% to $30.5. Oil 
stocks fell on 4% reduction in world oil prices last Friday: Lukoil lost 1.75% 
to $8.4, Tatneft - 1.44% to $0.206. 
* Tuesday saw low volumes and high volatility on the Russian market. Weakness on 
foreign markets contributed to the poor performance by Russian stocks. The RTS 
index closed down 1.12% at 114.47 on meager volume of $9.92. Rostelecom again 
led the correction, falling by 3.5% to $1.38, Tatneft dropped by 2.9% to $0.2 
and Mosenergo was down 2.6% to $0.033. Irkutskenergo was the only climber, 
gaining 2% to $0.0985. 
* Russian shares took a bad fall Wednesday. Panic began when the market opened 
2-3% down, due to the weakened ruble and the negative decision by the London 
Club on restructuring of Russian debts. This was taken by Russian investors as a 
signal for a sell-off, though Western investors mostly sat tight. By the end of 
the day the RTS index had collapsed by 7.88% to 105.46 on volume of $10.86 
million. Rostelecom was again the biggest loser, slipping by 13% to $1.2. 
Surgutneftegaz, UES and Mosenergo lost 7.6%-8% each to $0.168, $0.076 and $0.031 
respectively. 
* Russian stocks leveled out Thursday, with the RTS index finishing at 101.34 
after dipping below 100 in the morning. But the close was still 3.5% down from 
the previous day. Volume was $11.58 million, which was an improvement from last 
week's daily average. Two thirds of today's trade volume came in the last three 
hours, which indicates that new low prices are reviving buyer interest. 
Surgutneftegaz fell to $0.161, losing 3.9% from the previous close. UES and 
Mosenergo lost 4.5% è 2% respectively to stand at $0.073 and $0.03. LUKoil 
common shares were down 3.5% to $7.72. 
* The Russian stock market opened strongly on Friday, with S&P upgrades for 
Mosenergo and Irkutskenergo boosting investor optimism. News of higher U.S. 
inflation pushed prices slightly down later in the day, but the RTS index still 
managed to close up 1.79% at 103.15 - the first rise of the week. Trade volume 
of $16.2 million was a record since July 14. 

* Most Russian currency market operators expect the ruble to weaken in coming 
weeks. The recent statement by prime minister Sergei Stepashin that the Central 
Bank has enough resources to stop the ruble falling below 28 to the dollar was 
viewed by the market as a medium-term forecast, possibly to the end of the year. 
Although the market position of the Central Bank is still viewed as strong, the 
significant decline in its reserves in the second half of July has caused 
concern and will likely intensify activity by market players. That could make it 
harder for the Central Bank to maintain its policy of gradual strengthening of 
the dollar. 
* The dollar grew against the ruble on MICEX for the first time in 4 weeks. 
Trading volumes were high ($235 million vs. yesterday's $120 million), and 
market operators estimate that the Russian Central Bank spent as much as $100 
million resisting pressure on the national currency. This was the second time in 
the last few days when volumes exceeded $200 million, and traders see the high 
activity as a sign of shrinking confidence in short-term ruble stability. News 
from other local and foreign markets intensified the pressure and the situation 
was made worse by political battles between the Kremlin and its rivals. Some 
analysts fear that the ruble could lose as much as 2-3 kopecks per trading 
session through August. 
* Russian currency market players anticipate a halt in ruble decline. Some 
operators think that there will be a profit taking spree when the dollar rises 
to 24.70 rubles. This should help the CB to maintain control over the exchange 
rate. The general assumption is that the dollar will not rise above 25 rubles 
before the end of August. 
* UES says that the Russian government supports its demand for cancellation of 
the law, which limits foreign shareholdings in UES to 25%.According to UES, the 
government will appeal to the Constitutional Court before the end of the summer 
with a request to cancel the law. We anticipate the liquidity of the company's 
ADRs to increase after the law is cancelled. The Bank of New York suspended the 
ADRs after the law was adopted last year. ADRs are issued on 15.24% of UES 
stock. We recommend our clients to buy UES stock. (Reuters/Aton) 
* The Bank of New York has unfrozen the level-1 ADR program of UES, which was 
put on hold in May 1998 after passage of a federal law limiting foreign holdings 
in UES to 25%. BONY decided to continue conversion of UES shares into ADRs based 
on Russian government commitments to suppress the law. This government has not 
made any moves to enforce the measure in the year since it was passed. The BONY 
decision was also based on impressive results, achieved by new UES management 
headed by Anatoly Chubais. We believe that this step will improve liquidity of 
both UES stock and Russian market as a whole. (UES/Aton) 
* The Russian Anti-Monopoly Ministry has announced that it will not permit any 
further increase of local telephone tariffs in 1999. Local tariffs were raised 
by an average 23% all over Russia on June 1. With inflation forecasted at 60% in 
1999, such a tariff ceiling will negatively affect the financials of regional 
telephone operators. Rostelecom, which has the right to establish international 
tariffs independently, will clearly be at an advantage, since international 
telephone services account for 35% of its revenues. (Interfax/ Aton) 
* Rostelecom is to receive $16 million by the end of 1999 from Russia's Ministry 
of Finance as redemption of debts owed to the company by military and other 
state entities. In return, Rostelecom has agreed to upgrade communications 
infrastructure in Russia's Far East. We see the terms offered by the Finance 
Ministry as favorable for the company. Despite the modest size of the 
redemption, it equals 9% of Rostelecom's total accounts receivable and will 
significantly improve the company's balance sheet. Also the precedent is 
important for future settlement of debts to Rostelecom by state subscribers. 
(Rostelecom/Aton) 
* Red October, the Moscow confectionery company, is considering acquisition of 
Konditer, a confectioner based in Birobidzhan, in the Jewish Autonomous region. 
Red October representatives are meeting with Konditer officials to learn more 
about its financial situation. A period of external management, which began at 
Konditer last year, came to an end on August 2. The external management was 
imposed after Konditer failed to repay debts of about Rb 11 million. So far, we 
see no reason to upgrade our "Hold" rating for Red October. (Aton) 
* YUKOS announced the start of its program of transfer to a single share. The 
first stage will involve exchange of shares in the holding's production 
subsidiaries, Yuganskneftegaz, Samaraneftegaz and Tomskneft. The table below 
illustrates the swap ratios. The transfer program will require YUKOS to issue a 
further 15.4% of stock. 
* The only gain for shareholders in the subsidiaries will the extra liquidity of 
YUKOS stock compared with stock in the subsidiaries. The program is scheduled 
for Q4 1999. Despite the consolidation news we maintain our "Sell" 
recommendation on YUKOS stock. (Interfax/Aton) 
* After losing in a bid for a controlling stake in Bulgaria's largest fuel 
distributor, Petrol AD, LUKoil has won a tender auction for 58% of Neftokhim, an 
oil refinery on Bulgaria's Black Sea coast. LUKoil will pay $107 milllion for 
the stake in the refinery, which is located at Burgas. The acquisition gives the 
Russian oil giant access to Mediterranean and Central European fuel markets. 
LUKoil's positions on these markets will be helped by large-scale reconstruction 
works in neighboring Yugoslavia, which will push regional demand for motor fuel 
and fuel oils over the next 5-6 years. (Aton) 
* Irkutskenergo management announced it has solved financing problems, which 
were delaying implementation of plans to export power to China. The major US 
transnational Enron, which sells energy and natural gas in North America, will 
take a 70% share in a company, set up to build the cable link to China. The 
remaining 30% will be equally distributed between the Russian participants 
(Irkutskenergo and UES) and the Chinese. Under a preliminary agreement, 
construction of the energy bridge will start in 2001. The annual capacity of the 
bridge will be 15-18 billion kW. Construction of the 3500-kilometer power line 
will take several years. The project is exceptionally profitable for UES and 
Irkutskenergo as it will expand their export capacities and boost the share of 
hard currency in their revenues. (East-Siberian Pravda /Aton) 
* The Bank of New York has officially confirmed issue of level-1 ADRs on the 
stock of Moscow City Telephone Network (MGTS). The ADR program for MGTS is being 
implemented ahead of schedule. About 1% of MGTS stock is currently deposited 
with BONY, but there will be no limit on the number of shares convertible into 
ADRs. One ADR corresponds to 0.1 shares. This ratio will make the shares 
accessible for a broad range of private investors, which should increase their 
domestic and international liquidity. We therefore recommend our clients to buy 
MGTS stock. (Bloomberg/Aton) 
The largest Russian steel producer Severstal increased its rolled steel 
production by 1.9% to 3.8 million tons in H1 1999 compared to H1 1998. Pig iron 
production increased by 2.9% to 3.5 million tons, steel output grew by 0.3% to 
4.3 million tons. In spite of a 50% decline in sales to $590.56 million, a 
significant drop in production costs due to devaluation increased Severstal's 
pre-tax profit by 21% to $161.7 million. The portion of cash payments in total 
settlements increased from 69.2% in H1 1998 to 90% in H1 1999. This was thanks 
to an increase in exports. However, despite the financial improvements, the 
company's transparency leaves much to be desired. Hence, we maintain our "Hold" 
recommendation for Severstal shares. (Interfax/Aton)
