FOREIGN INVESTMENT- GEOGRAPHIC ASPECT
During last three years, the geographic structure of foreign investment 
experienced radical changes. In 1998 the share of ten developed countries was 
accounted for 93.3% of the overall volume of foreign investment in Russia, while 
the respective index in 1997 and 1996 made up 90.6% and 81.1%, respectively.

In 1998 German and French firms significantly strengthened their positions: 
their shares made up, respectively, 24.2% ( 1997- 13.4%) and 13.1% ( 1997- 1.7%) 
of the overall amount of foreign investment. The aggregate share of US, Germany, 
UK and France has doubled when compared with 1996.
It still is the fuel and food - processing sectors which remain most attractive 
to investors. It is Germany which is a leader in terms of investment in fuel 
industry- USD 565, 88 mln., or 30.1% of the overall volume of foreign investment 
in the sector, thus being far ahead of UK ( 368.48 mln.) and US ( 261.32 mln.)
Despite the political and economic instability, foreign investors do not refuse 
to participate in the Russian oil extraction. Thus, for instance BP and Amoco 
still intend to contribute to oil projects in the Caspian region, Irkutsk Oblast 
( Kovykinskoye deposit) and in Sakhalin ( in cooperation with Mobil and Shell).
Holding the 4th position among major gold- producing countries worldwide, Canada 
plans to expand its presence in the Russian market since 1999.. In the meantime 
seven Canadian companies have already started their operations in this country 
and participate in gold mining operations at 30 deposits located in the Far East 
and Eastern Siberia. About 20 Canadian companies (including the biggest mining 
ones) declared their serious intention towards Russia. For a long time the 
domestic gold production has been funded exclusively at the expense of the 
government finance, while the Canadian firms plan advance payments for the 
Russian gold- producing season amounted to USD 50- 85 mln. 
Despite an unfavorable situation in the Japanese and other Asian countries' 
economies, those countries have not lost their interest in the Russian Far East. 
Meanwhile Exxon Japan Pipeline and Japan Sakhalin Pipeline FS Co. LTD vigorously 
design a project of building up an export gas pipeline, to supply gas produced 
within the framework of Sakhalin 1 project to Japan. The value of Sakhalin-1 is 
accounted for a. USD 12.7 bln., while shares of Exxon (USA) and SODECO ( Japan) 
make up 30% each. Another project to which Japan contributes is extension and 
modernization of the port of Zarubino in the Primosky Krai; the Japanese initial 
investment in the project is accounted for USD 10 mln. In addition to that, 
Japan and US intend to extend a "close cooperation" with Russia with respect to 
dismantling the Russian obsolete nuclear submarines.
This year, the elaboration of the project of building up the Russia- China 
Energy Bridge is under way. The roject is accounted for USD 1.5 bln. and that 
will be financed by the Russian and Chinese parties (at 30% each) and yet at 70% 
- at the expense of borrowed capital.
South Korea raised a proposition of paying off a USD 1.7 bln. Russian debt with 
the Russian land lots. The Korean party assumes that it would allow to support 
the Korean companies' activities within the framework of joint projects. 
Discussions on the problem were scheduled for late May 1999.
Foreign companies' operations in this country may be affected by the Federation 
Council rejecting (on 18 May) the Federal Law "On foreign investment in RF" 
eralier approved by the Duma. Heads of Russian regions opposed an Article 
regarding providing guarantees, should changes in the RF legislation become 
unfavorable to foreign investors. The Senators pointed out that the bill affects 
the domestic investors' interests.
E. Ilyukhina
Top
 
