INVESTMENT IN THE REAL SECTOR: PRODUCTION OF INVESTMENT GOODS
During the post-crisis period, Mr. Primakov's government generally pursued a 
dual macroeconomic policy. It allowed to avoid the worst scenarios predicted in 
the course of the most intensive phase of the crisis, but such a policy affected 
monetary and credit market which provoked lowering investment activity. 
According to results of the Ist quarter 1999, investment in capital assets made 
up a. 9% of GDP versus 12.2% reported in 1998 and 11.4%- in 1997. The volume of 
investment between January to April is accounted for Rb. 115 bln. which is at 
2.8% down compared to the respective period of the prior year. Despite some 
improvement of macroeconomic indices and growth in gross profit of the national 
economy, financing enterprises' investment activity at the expense of their own 
and attracted capital remains at a very low level. During the last four years, 
credits given by commercial banks and funds raised through issuance of 
securities did not exceed 1.5% of the overall volume of sources of financing. 
The current complicated situation in the banking sector and growing risks have 
strengthened the trend to reduction in the share of banking credits for the term 
over one year. With the population income falling and confidence in the banking 
system and insurance market falling , there are lower chances to attract the 
population's savings to the investment sphere.
Since late 1998, one has noted a gradual restoration of monthly growth dynamics 
in the investment sector, particularly growth in output in the machine building 
and industry of construction materials, while the construction industry has got 
commissions and contracts for almost 5 months. The national media often refers 
to that as a "potential regeneration of investment activity". It is hard to 
agree with the statement, since during the last months the loading of production 
capacities of those industry branches which produce investment goods and 
services was made upon receipt of the respective orders. With the trend to 
lowering investment in capital assets and cuts in import of machinery and 
equipment being over 40%, that testifies primarily to a relative growth in 
demand for the domestic investment goods and expansion of the output of 
machinery and equipment competitive compared with their import analogues.
With the change in the price proportions for the domestic and import investment 
goods one indeed may note a regeneration of positive dynamics of output in the 
car-making sector, railway machine building, instrument making and industry of 
communication means. The output of the industry branches in the investment 
sector is focused practically on the domestic market, and level of effective 
demand is a limiting factor for the sector. Thus, between January to March 1999 
relative to the respective period of the prior year, the output in the ship- 
building sector fell by 26.5%, while that of technological equipment for the 
fuel and energy sector- by 2.2%. One of the major reasons for such a downfall 
became a lowering effective demand of such customers as Gasprom and joint- stock 
company "Rosshelf", under the agreements with which 7 ship- building plants 
build 20 vessels, including sea- drilling platforms 'Artcticheskaya" and 
"Prirazlomnaya".
This situation has also determined a pursuing of moderate price policy for 
investment goods and services. Meanwhile, with the inflation index doubled 
compared with December 1998, prices for machinery and equipment grew 1.3 times, 
construction work- by 18.3%. At the housing market, both price structure and 
tactics of businesses have changed: one notes an intensifying trend to a price 
drop for new housing and in the secondary housing market. For the first time 
since the beginning of reforms the housing market has reacted synchronously to 
the change in the macroeconomic situation, which allowed to keep positive 
dynamics of placement of new housing into operation.
Maintenance of a relatively stable level of output in the national industry in 
the post- crisis period was accompanied by a growing level of use of reserve 
production capacities, and that was a compensating process. However, taking into 
account the fact that the rate of capital assets renewal slid to 0.7% during 
last years, while the production equipment depreciation rate reaches almost 60%, 
it is of a crucial importance to estimate potential and economic expediency of 
mobilization of the accumulated production potential from the viewpoint of the 
domestic products' competitiveness. That is especially important, since during 
recent years the differentiation of production by level of technical and 
technological renewal has become yet increasingly notable.
The branch structure of investment activity shows that during recent years 
three- fourths of enterprises vigorously introducing innovations have fallen on 
sub-branches of the machine building and metal processing, food processing 
sectors, and chemicals and petrochemicals. Growth in the share of such industry 
branches as medical, microbiological, polygraphic, milling and feeder- 
producing, sewing ones is related to a significant degree to an intensive 
introduction of new technologies and design. It was the modernized enterprises 
focused on the output of import- substituting products in the post crisis period 
which have kept the trend towards positive development.
Since late 1998, the defense sector has kept a positive trend towards growth in 
the output of single kinds of investment goods which are competitive and enjoy 
both domestic and external demand. Between January to March 1999, the overall 
volume of output of civil products made up 104.6% to its respective period of 
1998.
With a low level of the domestic potential consumers' solvency, a 18% growth in 
output of civil aircraft was initiated by growth in export supplies and 
structural changes in the assortment of the aircraft. In the Ist quarter, the 
industry branch exported 1 Tu- 204 jet (produced by joint- stock company 
Aviastar, city of Ulyanovsk) and 15 helicopters ( Ka- 32, Mi- 17, Mi-8AIT). A 
8.2% growth in output of electronic devices may be attributed to an emerging 
cooperation with foreign partners and widening assortment of exported science- 
intensive and competitive products manufactured by joint ventures using domestic 
and foreign hi - tech and know how.
The aforementioned branches of the investment machine building indeed possess 
sufficient reserves and growth potential emerged as aresult of production 
restructuring to become starting points for economic growth and regeneration of 
a normal process of capital assets reproduction, should the competition 
environment change and investment climate become more favorable.
O. Izryadnova 
Top
 
