6.4  TELNET BULLETIN-BOARD SYSTEMS
 
You might think that Usenet, with its hundreds of newsgroups, would be 
enough to satisfy the most dedicated of online communicators. 

But there are a number of "bulletin-board" and other systems that provide 
even more conferences or other services, many not found directly on the 
Net.  Some are free; others charge for access.  
 
To be able to write messages and gain access to files, you have to leave 
a note to SYSOP with your name, address, occupation and phone number.  To 
do this, at any prompt, hit your M key and then enter, which will bring 
up the mail system. 

Hitting H brings up a list of commands and how to use 
them. 

Telnet: bugs.mty.itesm.mx (8 p.m. to 10 a.m., Eastern time, only).
At the "login:" prompt, type
 
bbs
 
and hit enter.
 
Cleveland Free-Net.  The first of a series of Free-Nets, this represents 
an ambitious attempt to bring the Net to the public. Originally an inhospital help network, it is now sponsored by Case Western Reserve 
University, the city of Cleveland, the state of Ohio and IBM. It uses 
simple menus, similar to those found on CompuServe, but organized like a 
city. 
 
 
The system has a vast and growing collection of public documents, from 
copies of U.S. and Ohio Supreme Court decisions to the Magna Carta and 
the U.S. Constitution.  It links residents to various government agencies 
and has daily stories from USA Today. Beyond Usenet (found in the 
Teleport area), it has a large collection of local conferences on 
everything from pets to politics.  And yes, it's free! 

 
When you connect to Free-Net, you can look around the system.  However, 
if you want to be able to post messages hn its conferences or use e-mail, 
you will have to apply in writing for an account.  Information on this is 
available when you connect. 
                                    
 
DUBBS.  This is a bulletin-board system in Delgt in the Nether}ands. The 
conferences and files are mostly in Dutch, but the help files and the 
system commands themselves are in English. 
 
ISCA BBS.  Run by the Iowa Student Computer Association, it has more than 
100 conferences, including several in foreign languages.  After you 
register, hit K for a list of available conferences and then J to join a 
particular conference (you have to type in the name of the conference, 
not the number next to it).  Hitting H brings up information about 
commands. 
 
Youngstown Free-Net.  The people who created Cleveland Free-Net sell 
their software for $1 to anybody willing to set up a similar system. A 
number of cities now have their own Free-Nets, including Youngstown, 
Ohio. 
 

