12.2  INTERNET RELAY CHAT
 
 
IRC is a program that lets you hold live keyboard conversations with 
people around the world.  It's a lot like an international CB radio  - it 
even uses "channels."  Type something on your computer and it's instantly 
echoed around the world to whoever happens to be on the same channel with 
you.  You can join in existing public group chats or set up your own.  
You can even create a private channel for yourself and as few as one or 
two other people.  And just like on a CB radio, you can give yourself a 
unique "handle" or nickname. 

IRC currently links host systems in 20 different countries, from 
Australia to Hong Kong to Israel.  Unfortunately, it's like telnet -- 
either your site has it or it doesn't.  If your host system does have it,  
Just type 
     
     irc
 
and hit enter.  
 
You are now in channel 0, the "null" channel, in which you can look up 
various help files, but not much else. As you can see, IRC takes over 
your entire screen.  The top of the screen is where messages will appear.  
The last line is where you type IRC commands and messages.  All IRC 
commands begin with a /.  The slash tells the computer you are about to 
enter a command, rather than a message. To see what channels are 
available, type 
 
     /list
 
and hit enter.                                                                 
 
Because IRC allows for a large number of channels, the list might scroll 
off your screen, so you might want to turn on your computer's screen 
capture to capture the entire list.  Note that the channels always have 
names, instead of numbers.  Each line in the listing tells you the 
channel name, the number of people currently in it, and whether there's a 
specific topic for it.  To switch to a particular channel, type 
 
     /join #channel
 
where "#channel" is the channel name and hit enter.  Some "public" 
channels actually require an invitation from somebody already on it.  To 
request an invitation, type 
 
     /who #channel-name
 
where channel-name is the name of the channel, and hit enter.  Then ask 
someone with an @ next to their name if you can join in.  Note that 
whenever you enter a channel, you have to include the #.  Choose one with 
a number of users, so you can see IRC in action. 
     
If it's a busy channel, as soon as you join it, the top of your screen 
will quickly be filled with messages.  Each will start with a person's 
IRC nickname, followed by his message. 

It may seem awfully confusing at first.  There could be two or three 
conversations going on at the same time and sometimes the messages will 
come in so fast you'll wonder how you can read them all.  

Eventually, though, you'll get into the rhythm of the channel and things 
will begin to make more sense.  You might even want to add your two cents 
(in fact, don't be surprised if a message to you shows up on your screen 
right away; on some channels, newcomers are welcomed immediately).  To 
enter a public message, simply type it on that bottom line (the computer 
knows it's a message because you haven't started the line with a slash) 
and hit enter.                             

Public messages have a user's nickname in brackets, like this: 
 
     <tomg>
 
If you receive a private message from somebody, his name will be between 
asterisks, like this: 
 
     *tomg*
 
 
