 
  
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  

At the G-7 meeting in Paris, the finance ministers of the seven leading 
industrial nations supported the efforts of the Russian government aimed at 
stabilisation of the economic situation in the country and implementing tax 
reforms. According to the U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summerce, the 
G-7 countries are ready to consider additional financial support for Russia as 
necessary and appropriate. At the same time, according to Dominic Strauss-Kan, 
the Finance Minister of France, Russia has not approached any of G-7 countries 
with requests for financial support.  

Fitch IBCA cut Russia's long-term foreign currency debt rating to BB from BB+ 
leaving its short-term rating as B. The agency also cut from BB+ to BB long-term 
foreign currency debt ratings of the following companies: Tatneft, Sibneft, 
Russia's Sberbank; as well as St. Petersburg and the following regions: 
Leningrad region, Krasnoyarsk territory and Komi republic. According to an 
announcement of Fitch IBCA, the agency will probably further reduce its ratings 
of these four Russia's regions as well as that of Moscow region that is 
currently BB.  

Standard & Poor's cut Russia's long-term foreign currency debt rating from BB- 
to B+. The short-term rating remains unchanged at B-. The agency cut the long-
term rating of LUKoil, MGTS, Mosenergo, Alrosa, Rostelecom from BB- to B+.  

In the first quarter of 1998, the privatisation revenue received by Russia's 
budget totalled R930 mln.  

Yuri Yurkov, the head of the State Statistics Committee, was arrested on charges 
of selling confidential information and helping major companies evade taxation.  

The Russian government decided to increase its 1998 borrowing in the 
international markets through Eurobond issues to $6 bln from the previously 
planned $3-4 bln.  

The following Russia's regions did not make timely payments on their agrobonds: 
Chita region (outstanding debt is R24 mln), Orenburg region (R8.3 mln) and 
Kalmykia republic (R33.3 mln).  
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas  

Gazprom will not undertake additional borrowing in the capital markets until the 
markets situation is improved.  

According to Alexander Braverman, First Deputy State Property Minister, the 
final decision on the method of privatisation of Slavneft will be made on June 
17 or 18.  

Vladimir Medvedev, the chairman of the Oil and Gas Producers Union, said that 
oil and gas companies plan to cut their personnel by up to 30%. For example, 
Yuganskneftegas will probably lay off 13,000 people. In 1997, job cuts in oil 
and gas industries totalled 5,500 and 6,000, respectively.  

 Telecommunications  

According to Alexander Braverman, First Deputy State Property Minister, a 
preliminary starting price of the 25% minus two shares stake in Svyazinvest is 
$1.5 bln.  

At the shareholder meeting of Khantymansiiskokrtelecom on June 10, it was 
decided to conduct a 1:10 share split. The company prepares a new issue of 
shares with a par value of R75,000.  

 Other Companies  

A tender to sell a 10% stake in Lebedinskii GOK will take place on July 24, 
1998. The starting price of the stake is R186 mln. The bids should be submitted 
before July 21, 1998.  

It is planned to place 26.9 mln of additional common shares of NOSTA until the 
end of June 1998.  

The exchange of shares of Izhorskie Plants into shares of Uralmash Plants will 
start on June 15, 1998. The exchange ratio of common shares will be 9:1 and of 
preferred shares - 2:1.  

The exchange of shares of AVISMA into shares of VSMPO that started on June 10 
was completed in one hour. Only eight companies of the thirteen that had 
expressed interest managed to purchase the shares. A large part of the new issue 
was purchased by Creditanstalt and Credit Swiss First Boston.  
  
	 

The following companies will not pay out dividends for 1997: Rybinskkabel, 
Angarsk Oil Chemical Company, Apatit, Petmol, Eastern Oil Company (VNK), NORSI 
Oil, Morion.  
  
	 

On Friday, June 5, the yields on GKOs were about 48-49%. On Monday, June 8, the 
yields grew to 52%. By the end of the week the yields on GKOs with "long" 
maturities increased to 64%.  

On June 15, 1998, futures trading will be resumed at Rossiiskaya Birzha using 
the trading system of the Moscow Stock Exchange.  
  
	
 	
 
   
