
The State Bank of the USSR
        When the New Economic Policy (NEP) was launched, the
        All-Russian Central Executive Committee (VTsIK) and
        the Council of People's Commissars (SNK) on October
        3 and 10, 1921, respectively, passed resolutions
        re-establishing the bank under the name of the State
        Bank of the RSFSR. On November 16, 1921, it began to
        conduct operations and in 1923 it was transformed
        into the State Bank of the USSR.

        In accordance with the Statute of the State Bank of
        the RSFSR, passed by VTsIK on October 13, 1921, it
        was an economic organisation established "to assist
        by credit and other banking operations the
        development of industry, agriculture and goods
        turnover and also the concentration of monetary
        turnovers and the implementation of other measures
        designed to establish proper money circulation". The
        bank had the right to extend credits to industrial
        and commercial enterprises based on different forms
        of ownership, farms and self-employed handicraftsmen
        "only under the condition of their solvency and
        economic expediency". The State Bank was a part of
        the People's Commissariat of Finance (Narkomfin) and
        it was directly accountable to the People's
        Commissar (Minister) of Finance.

        In November 1921 the State Bank was granted the
        monopoly right to conduct operations with foreign
        currency and valuables. It also set the official
        rate of precious metals and foreign exchange,
        regulating private trade in gold, silver, foreign
        currency at stock exchanges, and cheques and bills
        of exchange drawn in foreign currency, which were
        permitted in 1922.

        Two denominations conducted in 1922 and 1923
        increased the face value of the Soviet paper money
        the Narkomfin issued at that time to cover the
        budget deficit. During the first denomination the
        new, 1922 rouble exchanged for 10,000 roubles of all
        kinds of issues that were in circulation in the
        country; during the second denomination the new,
        1923 rouble exchanged for 100 roubles of the 1922
        issue.

        On October 11, 1922, the State Bank was granted the
        right to issue the chervonets (bank note) and became
        an emission centre. The issue of the chervonets
        marked the beginning of a monetary reform, which
        ended the galloping post-war inflation.

        In 1922-1924 both the rouble and the chervonets were
        in circulation. The chervonets was backed by gold:
        it was equivalent to 7.74232 grams of fine gold,
        equalling tsarist Russia's 10-rouble coin. In 1923
        Russia began to mint gold chervonets coins, which
        were mostly used in foreign trade. In March 1924 the
        monetary reform was completed, and the new rouble,
        which was used as change and equalled one-tenth of
        the chervonets, exchanged for 50,000 roubles of the
        1923 issue or 50 million roubles of the earlier
        issues.

        During the NEP the following types of bank credits
        were used: bills of exchange discounting, loans on
        call from special current accounts covered by bills
        of exchange, and time loans against bills of
        exchange. In addition, three years after its
        founding, the bank began to practise direct target
        crediting. In October 1924 the State Bank compiled
        its first consolidated credit plan comprising all
        branches. As a result of the reform of the cash
        structure of the State Treasury, conducted in 1925,
        the cash holdings of the State Bank and Narkomfin
        were merged.

        Soviet Russia's first commercial banks, including
        sectoral joint-stock banks (specialised banks) and
        mutual loan societies, appeared in 1922. These banks
        were to extend short-or long-term credits to
        individual sectors of the economy. In 1924 the
        Committee on Banks was set up under the State Bank's
        Board to co-ordinate their activities.

        In the latter half of the 1920s the functions and
        activities of the State Bank changed dramatically.
        That was mainly the result of the accelerated rates
        of industrialisation, which required vast capital
        investments in heavy industry within a short period
        of time.

        It was impossible to carry out industrialisation in
        the USSR by traditional methods, that is, by
        accumulation of money resources inside the country
        and foreign loans. The population lacked the
        required savings, while foreign loans could not be
        obtained for economic (the world was in the grip of
        an economic crisis) and political reasons. As a
        result the industrialisation in the USSR was
        financed through money emission. Throughout the
        entire period of phasing out the New Economic Policy
        the Soviet authorities tried to find the simplest
        means by which the state could re-distribute funds
        between various sectors of the economy.

        In June 1927 as a result of the tighter regulation
        of the short-term capital movement the State Bank
        was vested with the responsibility of exercising
        immediate day-to-day control over the entire credit
        system, while the Narkomfin retained its function of
        general regulation. The State Bank was to supervise
        the activities of the other credit organisations in
        accordance with government credit policy directives.
        Specialised banks were required to keep their free
        funds in and make borrowings from the State Bank
        only and the latter was granted the right to be
        represented in their boards and auditing units. In
        addition, the State Bank was to increase its share
        in the specialised banks' equity capital.

        As the banking system was re-organised in February
        1928, most short-term credit operations began to be
        concentrated in the State Bank. It also took control
        of many affiliates of the joint-stock banks, which
        began to play an auxiliary role in crediting the
        economy. Long-term lending was conducted mainly by
        the specially created Bank for the Long-Term
        Crediting of Industry and Power Engineering (BDK)
        and the Central Utilities and Housing Bank
        (Tsekombank), and partly by the Central Agricultural
        Bank (TsSKhbank).

        In August 1928 the Central Bank was entrusted with
        cash servicing of the state budget and that made it
        possible to concentrate in the State Bank all cash
        operations of the socialist economy.

        In June 1929 the first Statute of the State Bank was
        adopted, which declared the State Bank an authority
        regulating the money circulation and short-term
        crediting in accordance with the general economic
        development plan of the USSR.

        In the late 1920s and early 1930s the USSR carried
        out a series of reforms aimed at creating an
        effective mechanism of centrally planned regulation
        of the material and financial aspects of the
        reproduction process. Accordingly, a credit reform
        was carried through in 1930-1932, which resulted in
        the creation of a mechanism of centrally planned
        regulation of the monetary and credit resource
        flows.

        In January 1930 as a result of the abolition of the
        mutual commercial crediting all direct short-term
        lending began to be conducted in the State Bank. All
        specialised banks turned into long-term investment
        banks and all their branches were closed. The
        specialised banks were required to conduct all their
        operations through State Bank affiliates.

        In January 1931 the acceptance form of non-cash
        settlements through the State Bank was introduced.

        In March 1931 the State Bank's functions as the only
        short-term credit bank and settlement and cash
        centre of the Soviet economy were formalised.

        In June 1931 the working capital of the enterprises
        was divided into their own and borrowed capital, and
        the main principles of short-term bank crediting
        were formulated. When enterprises became owners of
        the working capital, it became possible to establish
        the entities of bank crediting. State enterprises
        now received short-term credits only to finance en
        route values, advance payments for seasonal
        production reserves, the accumulation of seasonal
        reserves of raw materials, fuel, production and
        auxiliary materials, temporary increases in
        investments in unfinished construction projects,
        seasonal accumulation of finished goods and products
        and other temporary needs related to the production
        and circulation of commodities.

        In May 1932 the functions of the State Bank and
        those of the long-term investment banks (Prombank,
        Selkhozbank, Vsekobank and Tsekombank) were finally
        delineated.

        As a result of the credit reform the State Bank lost
        the last commercial elements of its activity and
        became a typical Soviet state bank, whose main
        functions were extending planned credits to the
        economy, managing money circulation and settlements,
        ensuring the cash servicing of the state budget and
        effecting international settlements. The structure
        of the credit system that was established at that
        time would remain in place for 55 years practically
        unchanged.

        Later on all the changes in the activities of the
        State Bank were limited to the introduction of new
        forms of the planned crediting of the economy and
        bank settlements and also new methods of control
        over the spending of funds on wages and salaries
        (80% of the entire cash turnover) and the collection
        of proceeds from trade.

        In February 1930 all transactions involving the sale
        of gold and foreign currency to private individuals
        for chervonets at a fixed rate were abolished, the
        Soviet currency was removed from trading at foreign
        exchanges and a quoting commission was set up under
        the State Bank's Board to set the exchange rates of
        foreign currencies.

        In 1933 the State Bank implemented a series of
        measures to accelerate settlements, improve
        accounting, reporting and paperwork and enhance
        internal banking control. The State Bank balance
        sheet was restructured on a departmental basis and
        that made the balance sheet comparable with the
        credit plan. The offsetting of interaffiliate
        turnovers was decentralised while the centre
        continued to exercise general control.

        In 1939 the State Bank began to collect cash. During
        the Second World War (1941-1945) the State Bank
        issued cash to cover the budget deficit, increasing
        the money supply fourfold. To normalise the money
        circulation a monetary reform of confiscatory type
        was conducted in 1947, during which old money was
        exchanged for new at the rate of 10 to 1, cash
        accounts in the savings banks were re-evaluated and
        the conversion of all state loans, except the 1947
        loan, was implemented.

        In March 1950 the gold content of the rouble was set
        at 0.222168 grams of fine gold.

        In December 1949 the second Statute of the State
        Bank was adopted.

        In April 1949 as a result of the reorganisation of
        the credit system a part of the operations of the
        Selkhozbank, Tsekombank and municipal banks were
        assigned to the State Bank.

        In 1960 the State Bank began to compile long-term
        investment crediting plans.

        In May 1961 the rouble was denominated and devalued.
        One new rouble exchanged for 10 old roubles. At the
        same time the gold content of the rouble was
        increased four times only to equal 0.987412 grams of
        fine gold.

        In October 1960 the State Bank adopted its third
        Statute and in 1963 all the state savings banks were
        brought under its control.

        In 1965-1969 the economic reform brought about some
        changes in the activities of the State Bank, which
        were connected with lending and settlements, money
        circulation planning and regulation, financing
        capital investments and organising the savings
        system. Credits on material assets turnover and wage
        costs and credits on ordinary loan accounts became
        the main means of crediting industry.

        In July 1987 as a result of the reorganisation of
        the credit system new specialised banks were founded
        (Vneshekonombank SSSR, Promstroibank SSSR,
        Zhilsotsbank SSSR and Sberbank SSSR) and the State
        Bank began to perform the functions of the country's
        main bank. It was assigned the task of elaborating
        the consolidated credit plan and planning the
        distribution of funds and credit investments among
        all banks.

        In September 1988 the fourth Statute of the State
        Bank of the USSR was approved, in accordance with
        which the State Bank was the country's main bank and
        the only issuing centre and organiser of credit and
        settlement relations in the economy.

        In March 1989 the transfer of the specialised banks
        to full cost-accounting and self-financing required
        that the State Bank provide them with target figures
        on the volume of credit resources, the amount of
        funds attracted from the population, and the volume
        of foreign-currency receipts and payments on banking
        operations.

        In January 1990 the State Bank was given control
        over the Savings Bank of the USSR.

        On July 13, 1990, the State Bank of the RSFSR,
        accountable to the Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR, was
        created on the basis of the Russian Republic Bank of
        the State Bank of the USSR.

        On December 2, 1990, the Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR
        passed the Law on the Central Bank of the RSFSR
        (Bank of Russia), which stipulated that the Bank of
        Russia was a legal entity and the main bank of the
        RSFSR and that it was accountable to the Supreme
        Soviet of the RSFSR. The law defined the functions
        of the bank in organising money circulation,
        monetary regulation, economic activity and the
        regulation of joint-stock and co-operative banks.

        In December 1990 the Law on the State Bank of the
        USSR and the Law on Banks and Banking were passed.
        In accordance with them, the State Bank of the USSR
        and national banks, which were being established at
        that time on the basis of the republican divisions
        of the State Bank, were to create a single system of
        central banks based on a single monetary unit (the
        rouble) and performing the functions of a reserve
        system.

        In June 1991 the Statute of the Central Bank of the
        RSFSR (Bank of Russia), accountable to the Supreme
        Soviet of the RSFSR, was approved.

        The period between July 1990 and December 1991 was a
        time of confrontation between the Russian State Bank
        and the State Bank of the USSR.

        In November 1991, owing to the establishment of the
        Commonwealth of Independent States and the
        disbandment of the Soviet Union structures, the
        Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR proclaimed the Central
        Bank of the RSFSR the only organ for state monetary
        and foreign currency regulation of the economy on
        the territory of the RSFSR. It was entrusted with
        functions of the State Bank of the USSR in issuing
        money and setting the exchange rate of the rouble.
        The Central Bank of the RSFSR was instructed to
        assume, before January 1, 1992, full economic and
        other control of the assets, technical facilities
        and other resources of the State Bank of the USSR
        and all its institutions, enterprises and
        organisations.

        On December 20, 1991, the State Bank of the USSR was
        dissolved and all its assets and liabilities and
        also its property on the territory of the RSFSR were
        transferred to the Central Bank of the RSFSR (Bank
        of Russia).


