 
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  

Standard and Poor's has left unchanged credit ratings of five Russian banks: 
Alba-Alliance, Vozrozhdenie, Inkombank, Russian Credit and SBS-Agro. The agency 
has also downgraded Imperial bank from B+ to B and stopped monitoring it. Long-
term credit rating of Alfa-Bank will continue to be monitored by the agency. 
According to the official data of Standard and Poor's, the ratings were left 
unchanged because probability of rouble devaluation in the near future had 
decreased. 

On June 18, Russian Ministry of Finance issued and placed a 30-year Eurobond 
denominated in US dollars. According to preliminary reports, the volume of the 
placement totalled $2.5 bln and the bond was placed with a spread of about 7.5% 
over US treasuries. The larger part of the amount will be used to service state 
debt. 

According to Oleg Viugin, First Deputy Russia’s Finance Minister, a group of 
International Monetary Fund executives will soon arrive to Moscow to conduct 
negotiations regarding a bailout package for Russia. The amount of the package 
will be discussed during negotiations with Russian government officials. 

According to Sergei Aleksashenko, Central Bank’s First Deputy Chairman, Russian 
money supply on May 1 was 368 bln roubles compared to 360 billion a month 
earlier. 

On June 17, Anatoly Chubais was appointed a special President’s representative 
responsible for relations with international financial organisations. 
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas  

According to AK&M data, prices of oil (Urals Blend c.i.f.) fell to a record low 
of under $9 per barrel. In spite of all steps taken by the oil producer 
countries to break this negative tend, prices continue to fall. One barrel of 
oil today costs more than 30% less than a year ago. 

According to Alexander Braverman, First Deputy State Property Minister, tenders 
to sell Tyumen Oil Company (TNK) and Eastern Oil Company (VNK) are postponed 
until 1999. The government might decide to contribute these stakes (about 48% of 
TNK and 34% of VNK) into charter capitals of other companies. Besides, Russia’s 
State Property Ministry considers three possible options to conduct tenders for 
two stakes of 5.36% and 9% in LUKoil. The Ministry will not sell the stake of 
6.6%, which is currently in state property. 

It is most likely that YUKOS will not make a transfer to a unified share for all 
YUKOS subsidiaries, Eastern Oil Company (VNK) and VNK subsidiaries in 1998. 
Currently, YUKOS does not have a controlling stake in VNK, but it will probably 
participate in the tender for a 34% stake in VNK. 

Orenburg Oil Company (ONAKO) is included in the plan of privatisation for 1998. 
The government plans to sell a controlling stake of the company. 

 Energy   

On June 17, an external manager was appointed at Kuzbassenergo that will control 
financial affairs of the company. On August 8, Arbitrage Court will consider a 
possibility of declaring bankruptcy of Kuzbassenergo. 

 Telecommunications  

According to Alexander Braverman, First Deputy State Property Minister, foreign 
investors will probably be allowed to take part in the tender of Svyazinvest. 
President’s decree and Russia’s government instructions are expected at the end 
of July 1998. Russian Fund of Federal Property jointly with top managers of 
Svyazinvest will conduct road shows in June and July in Moscow, London, Paris, 
Madrid, New-York, Frankfurt, Stockholm, Zurich and Geneva. They plan to conduct 
meetings with investment banks including Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch, Deutsche 
Morgan Grenfell, Goldman Sachs, J.P. Morgan, Morgan Stanley, CSFB, UBS, SBC 
Warburg; investment funds including Templeton, Lazard Asset Management, Baring 
Asset Management, J.P. Morgan Asset Management, INVESCO Asset Management; and 
telecom companies including British Telecom, France Telecom, Telecom Italia, 
Deutsñhe Telecom, AT&T, and others. 

Russia’s Federal Property Fund has started accepting bids for participation in 
the tender for a 22% stake in Electrosvyaz of Moscow region. The tender will 
take place on July 30, 1998. 

At the annual meeting on June 18, the shareholders of Tomsktelecom voted to 
split the company’s shares with a ratio of 1:10. 

 Other Companies 

Russia’s largest carmaker AvtoVAZ will cut output by about 125,000 vehicles, 17% 
of its planned output this year, due to an overproduction crisis. As a result of 
growing interest rates, the company’s dealers find it difficult to finance their 
operation. VAZ produces popular Zhiguli compact cars, also known as Ladas, as 
well as four-wheel drive Nivas, but the company has struggled during the Russian 
economic reforms. 

Ulianovsk Automobile Plant (UAZ) increased its production by 30% in the first 
five months of 1998 compared to the same period of last year. The company’s 
production volume during the period from January to May this year exceeded R1.5 
bln. 

On June 15, the exchange of shares in Izhorskie Plants into shares of Uralmash 
Plants started. In the first two days, more than 40% of shares of Izhorskie 
Plants was exchanged. At the end of last week, Russia’s State Anti-Trust 
Committee permitted Uralmash Plants to purchase 100% of Izhorskie Plants. 

On June 17, KamAZ started a conversion of its shares with a par value of 1,000 
“old” roubles into shares with a par value of 50,000 “old” roubles. The 
conversion will be conducted at the Central Moscow Depository from June 17 to 
June 22. After the shares are registered and placed, the charter capital of 
KamAZ will be R6,250 mln. 

According to documents prepared for the annual shareholders meeting of ZIL, the 
company’s management expects a loss of R161 mln in 1998. 

Norilsk Nickel submitted to US SEC all materials necessary to register its 
Level-1 ADRs. It is planned to place the ADRs in July-August 1998. 
  
	
  
On June 15, trading in futures was resumed at Rossiiskaya Birzha under the 
supervision of Moscow Stock Exchange. After the recent crisis caused by defaults 
of trading companies and a two-week period of no trading, the number of 
participants fell from 400 to 17. 

On June 18, MICEX halted trading in stocks at 4:31 p.m. because the MICEX Stock 
Index fell by 7.5%. 

On June 12, yield on GKOs with long maturities was 64%. On June 16, the yield 
grew to 68.5%. On June 17, Russia’s Finance Ministry, declared a GKO auction 
void, citing low prices as the reason. On June 17, the average yield came to 
55.34%. By the end of the week, yield on GKOs with long maturities was about 
57%. 
  
	 
 
   
