

                THE CENTRAL BANK OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                               PRESS RELEASE

The Press Centre of the Bank of Russia reports that the National Banking
Council held a meeting on September 17 to discuss the problem of
non-payments in the Russian economy and ways to resolve this problem and
also considered the question of the further development of the Russian
payments system.

In accordance with the State Duma's Decision No. 1634 of June 24, 1997, the
Bank of Russia prepared the analytical report "On the Problem of
Non-Payments in the Russian Economy and Possible Solutions". The report
says that the leading role of the Bank of Russia in addressing the
non-payments crisis consists in creating conditions for the development of
solvent demand for commercial bank credits by enterprises in the real
sector of the economy. Bank of Russia experts cite among such conditions
the decline of inflation and low interest rates and the corresponding
exchange rate dynamics.

The authors of the report note that to solve the insolvency problem it is
necessary to reform the production structures and organise their effective
management. Yet another major solution to the non-payments problem is
realistic budget planning and maintenance of payment discipline.

The National Banking Council approved in principle the Bank of Russia
position spelled out in the analytical report. The NBC members believe that
the complexity of the non-payments problem requires combined and
co-ordinated efforts of the Bank of Russia and the Russian Government and
credit organisations and enterprises. The participants in the meeting
agreed that the general precondition for the solution of the mutual
settlements problem was the creation of a stable macroeconomic background
that would ensure the stability of prices and the exchange rate of the
rouble. That would give economic agents sound guidelines for planning their
business.

In the course of the discussion of the development of the Russian payments
system the participants in the meeting noted that by the beginning of the
new millennium the Russian payments system will be based on a real-time
gross settlements system.

The National Banking Council approved in principle the concept of the
development of the Bank of Russia settlement network, which aims to prevent
failures and delays, reduce settlement periods and ensure reliability and
security of settlement operations.



BANK OF RUSSIA PRESS CENTRE 09/17/97
tel: 921-89-01
No part of this material may be used without mentioning the Bank of Russia
Press Centre
