  
	ECONOMIC NEWS  

President Boris Yeltsin dismissed his entire government, including Prime 
Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin and first deputy prime minister Anatoly Chubais on 
Monday. Fuel and Energy Minister Sergey Kiriyenko was appointed the acting Prime 
Minister. President Boris Yeltsin said he would dissolve the Duma if it rejected 
his choice of Kirienko. The head of Duma said the deputies are likely to 
consider the nomination of Kirienko as Russia's new prime minister on April 3. 
On March 27, Yeltsin announced that he intends to downsize the government by 
half.  

On March 23, 1998, Russia postponed a new Eurobond issue, as a result of 
political uncertainty. On March 24, Russia placed issue that totaled DM1.25 bln, 
up from the previously announced amount of DM1.0 bln.  
  
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas  

Elf Aquitaine of France and YUKSI, Russia's largest oil company, announced on 
Monday they have signed a protocol to form a strategic alliance. Elf will buy a 
5% stake in YUKSI for $528 million, with an option to adjust the stake when 
YUKSI is listed on a foreign stock exchange. Elf will appoint a director to 
YUKSI's board. The two sides will jointly develop a major oilfield in Siberia. 
Elf will offer YUKSI an option to participate in some of its international 
projects. Elf Aquitaine is the largest oil company in France, it is on the 8th 
place among the world's oil companies in terms of market capitalisation ($33 
bln).  

On March 19, 1998, the Federal Securities Commission (FSC) registered the issue 
of 88.7 mln common and 1.4 mln preferred shares of oil company Rosneft.  

Russia's Tyumen Oil Company (TNK) and French energy group Total signed a letter 
of intent to study prospects for cooperation in oil production. TNK will have 
three months to find a strategic partner. One possible partner for TNK is a US 
company Philips Petroleum.  

Oil company Sidanko formed a new executive council that includes eight top 
managers of the company.  

Bank Zenit opened a R30 mln ($5 mln) credit line for Nizhnekamskneftekhim to 
increase the company's working capital. Since October 1997, the bank and 
Nizhnekamskneftekhim are strategic partners. The bank is working on several 
investment projects for the company.  

Nizhnekamskeftekhim signed a letter of intent with a German chemical concern 
Bayer AG. The two companies are considering building a new rubber plant on the 
territory of Nizhnekamskneftekhim, which currently is one of Russia's largest 
producers of polymers. Bayer AG will hold the controlling stake in the new 
plant.  

 Telecommunications  

Moscow City Telephone Co. distributed eurobonds worth $150 million with a three-
year maturity. American offshore companies bought 60% of the issue and investors 
from Switzerland and Benelux purchased the remaining 40%. The bonds offer a 
coupon rate of 12.5%, with the interest paid semi-annually.  

On April 9, 1998, the Organisational Committee on the sale of 25% minus 2 shares 
stake in Svyazinvest will consider the issues concerning the tender's investment 
program and appointment of an independent expert to value the stake.  

Electrosvyaz of Irkutsk region prepares the issue of level-1 ADRs and a new 
stock issue with a volume of up to 25% of the charter capital.  

On March 24, 1998, the US SEC accepted a request from Electrosvyaz of Rostov 
region to issue and place level-1 ADRs.  

 Other Companies  

At the extraordinary shareholders meeting of Moscow confectionery Red October, 
it was decided to acquire a confectionery in Ryazan.  

The main production line of KamAZ will not work until the end of March. The 
company is undergoing restructuring and is expected to spin off some of its 
production divisions that will become independent companies.  

Ulyanovsk Auto Plant (UAZ), Russia's largest producer of off-road vehicles, is 
looking for a strategic partner through its auditor, KPMG.  
  
	  
