

   Registration of Credit Institutions and Licensing Banking
                          Activities

  The procedure for registering credit institutions and
  licensing banking activities is established by the Federal
  Laws “On the Central Bank of the Russian Federation (Bank
  of Russia)” and “On Banks and Banking Activities” and other
  laws, Bank of Russia Instruction No. 49 of September 27,
  1996, “On the Procedure for Registering Credit Institutions
  and Licensing Banking Activities” and other Bank of Russia
  regulations.

  Credit institutions may be established as economic
  companies.

  Credit institutions are divided into banks and non-banking
  credit organisations, depending on the range of the
  operations they conduct. A bank is a credit institution
  which has the exclusive right to conduct all of the
  following banking operations: attract to deposits money
  from physical persons and legal entities, place this money
  on its own behalf and at its own expense on a repayable
  basis, for a fee and for a fixed term and open and keep
  bank accounts of individuals and corporate clients.

  The list of banking operations is given in Article 5 of the
  Federal Law “On Banks and Banking Activities”.

  Credit institutions are subject to state registration in
  the Bank of Russia. The latter conducts the state
  registration of credit organisations and keeps the State
  Register of Credit Organisations.

  The Bank of Russia issues licences to credit organisations
  to conduct banking operations.

  The grounds and procedure for denying a credit organisation
  state registration and licence to conduct banking
  operations are given in Article 16 of the Federal Law “On
  Banks and Banking Activities”.

  The banking legislation makes special requirements to the
  contents of the charters of credit organisations and the
  formation of their authorised capital and sets
  qualification criteria for the heads of credit
  organisations.

  A credit institution may be founded by legal entities or
  natural persons whose participation in a credit
  organisation is not prohibited by applicable legislation.

  If a credit organisation is founded by a legal entity, the
  founding legal entity must be registered in accordance with
  the procedure established by the applicable legislation,
  have a stable financial position and fulfil its obligations
  to the federal budget, budgets of the constituent
  territories of the Russian Federation and local budgets
  during the last three years. The founders must have the
  funds meeting the Bank of Russia requirements to contribute
  them to the authorised capital of the credit organisation.

  For a credit organisation to be registered its founders
  must submit to the Bank of Russia the documents listed in
  Article 14 of the Federal Law “On Banks and Banking
  Activities”.

  The Bank of Russia shall consider the question of granting
  banking licence to credit organisations and agree changes
  and amendments to the charters of credit organisations,
  changes in the composition of participants in credit
  organisations and candidates nominated as the heads of
  executive bodies and chief accountants of credit
  organisations. The Bank of Russia shall keep the registers
  of the structural divisions of credit organisations.

  Bank of Russia Instruction No. 129-U of January 5, 1998,
  "On Minimum Authorised Capital Requirement for Newly
  Created Credit Institutions and Minimum Own Assets
  (Capital) Requirement for Operating Credit Institutions
  Applying for Additional Licences", establishes the
  following minimum authorised capital requirements for
  newly-created credit institutions for the first half of
  1998:

  - for banks that are not subsidiary credit entities of
  foreign banks applying for banking licences:

  (a) 26.4 million roubles for licence to conduct operations
  in roubles (without the right to attract money to deposits
  from private individuals);

  (b) 33 million roubles for licence to conduct operations in
  roubles and foreign currency (without the right to attract
  money to deposits from private individuals);

  (c) 33 million roubles for licence to conduct operations
  with precious metals;

  - 66 million roubles for subsidiary credit entities of
  foreign banks;

  - 100,000 ECU for non-bank credit institutions.

  The minimum own assets (capital) requirements for the
  credit organisations wishing to expand the range of their
  operations are as follows:

  (a) 26.4 million roubles to obtain licence to attract money
  to personal deposits in roubles;

  (b) 33 million roubles to obtain licence to conduct banking
  operations in roubles and foreign currency (without the
  right to attract funds from private individuals in roubles
  and in foreign currency), licence to attract funds to
  personal deposits in roubles and in foreign currency, and
  licence to conduct operations with precious metals.

  The minimum requirement for own assets (capital) of a
  credit institution wishing to obtain a general licence to
  conduct banking operations is 33 million roubles.

  Contributions to authorised capital of a credit institution
  may be made in the form of money and tangible assets
  (banking equipment and the building housing the credit
  organisation but not unfinished construction projects).

  The tangible assets contributed to the authorised capital
  of a credit institution on the condition that the nominal
  price of the shares (stakes) acquired with the said fund is
  equivalent to more than two hundred (200) minimum wages,
  set by the corresponding federal law, are assesed, taking
  into consideration Bank of Russia Instruction 243-Y, dated
  1.06.98, "On the Registration of Stakes in the Authorised
  Capital of Credit Institutions, Formed by Contributing
  Tangible Assets, and Uniform Application of the Legislation
  on the Protection of the Rights of the Participants of
  Credit Institutions".

  When a new credit organisation is establishid, the
  non-monetary part of its authorised capital must not exceed
  20% and subsequently each time the authorised capital of
  the credit organisation is increased the cost of the
  tangible assets with which the authorised capital is
  increased must not exceed 10% of the sum by which the
  authorised capital is increased.

  Newly-created and operating credit organisations are not
  allowed to use foreign currency in effecting settlements
  with regard to the payment for stakes in their authorised
  capital.

  The operating credit organisations whose authorised capital
  is fully or partially comprised of the participants’
  contributions in foreign currency are recommended by
  January 1, 1999, to gradually replace the stakes (shares)
  denominated in foreign currency (including shares whose par
  value is expressed in both roubles and foreign currency)
  with stakes (shares) denominated in the currency of the
  Russian Federation.

  Credit organisations may conduct professional activities in
  the securities market only if they have the corresponding
  Bank of Russia licence.

  Credit organisations may be granted the following types of
  licences:

  - licence to conduct banking operations (except attracting
  individuals’ savings to deposits) with funds denominated in
  roubles or funds denominated in roubles and foreign
  currency;

  - licence to attract to deposits individuals' funds in
  roubles and foreign currency (the right to attract
  individuals' funds to deposits is granted to banks at least
  two years after their registration if their financial
  position is considered stable);

  - general licence, allowing a credit organisation to
  conduct all operations in roubles and foreign currency,
  open branches abroad in accordance with the established
  procedure and/or buy shares (stakes in authorised capital)
  in nonresident credit organisations;

  - licence (permission) to conduct operations with precious
  metals (gold and silver); it is issued by the Bank of
  Russia by agreement with the Ministry of Finance of the
  Russian Federation;

  - licence to conduct professional activities in the
  securities market.

  Licence to conduct operations with precious metals may be
  issued at the same time as licence to conduct operations in
  foreign currency or immediately afterwards.

  To buy and sell coins made of precious metals a credit
  institution must have the corresponding Bank of Russia
  licence (permission).

  Credit institutions should have a corresponding Bank of
  Russia licence (permission) for purchase/sale of coins made
  of precious metals (gold, platinum, silver, palladium)
  except the coins that are the currency of the Russian
  Federation.

  The banks authorised to conduct operations and transactions
  with natural precious stones are the banks that
  simultaneously have Bank of Russia general licence to
  condact banking operations and licence to conduct
  operations with precious metals or permission to condact
  operations with precious metals (gold and silver).

  Credit institutions set up to collect cash, promissory
  notes and payment and settlement documents are subject to
  government registration in keeping with the procedure
  established by Bank of Russia Instruction No. 49, dated
  27.09.96, "On the Procedure for Registering Credit
  Institutions and Licensing Banking Activities", taking into
  account the requirements laid down in Bank of Russia
  Instruction No. 244 Y, dated 1.06.98, "On the Registration
  of Non-Bank Credit Institutions Conducting Collection
  Operations and on the Specifics of Licensing Their
  Activities".

  The purchase of more than 5% of stakes (shares) of a credit
  organisation requires notification of the Bank of Russia
  and the purchase of more than 20% of stakes (shares)
  requires its prior consent.

  The Bank of Russia may refuse to approve a transaction to
  buy more than 20% of stakes (shares) of a credit
  organisation, if it discovers that the buyers have
  financial problems or violated anti-monopoly regulations
  and in some other cases stipulated by federal laws.

  A credit organisation requesting permission to expand their
  operations must be financially stable and it must have a
  structure corresponding to the kind of activity it intends
  to engage in, including the internal control (internal
  audit) service.

  Credit institutions are re-organised in accordance with the
  Civil Code of the Russian Federation, Federal Law on
  Joint-Stock Companies (for credit organisations in the form
  of joint-stock companies), Bank of Russia Instruction No.
  49, of September 27, 1996, "On the Procedure for
  Registering Credit Institutions and Licensing Banking
  Activities", Bank of Russia Provision No. 12-P, of December
  30, 1997, "On the Specifics of Bank Re-Organisation in the
  Form of Mergers and Acquisitions", and also the founding
  documents of re-organised credit organisations.




