Some economists argue that worldwide overcapacity threatens to unleash deflation 
in the world economy. These fears are exaggerated 
Deflation and all that 
Some economists argue that worldwide overcapacity threatens to unleash deflation 
in the world economy. These fears are exaggerated ECONOMICS is not called the 
dismal science for nothing. Even though America's economy has been growing 
strongly in recent years, American economists are becoming intrigued by an 
increasingly fashionable theory. This is the idea that a global excess of 
productive capacity together with a slowdown in East Asia will result in 
worldwide deflation. Some people are already urging America's Federal Reserve to 
cut interest rates in order to stave off trouble. The Fed ignored this advice 
when its Open Market Committee met on November 12th, and left rates unchanged. 
The deflationists' case is quite straightforward. Around the world, too many 
factories are making too many cars, too many computer chips and too many 
chemicals. As a result, they say, supply is outpacing demand. And things could 
get worse if Asia's financial problems turn an economic slowdown into a slump. 
The result will be global deflation-a period of falling prices, shrinking 
profits and lots of bankruptcies. 
There are, indeed, many examples of excess supply around the globe. A mountain 
of computer chips, largely the result of overinvestment in Asia, caused the 
price of memory chips to tumble by 80% in 1996. The world car industry now has 
enough capacity to churn out 35% more vehicles than are bought each year. Car 
sales have levelled off in the rich world, and although demand in the developing 
countries has been rising rapidly, production is growing even faster. 
An article in the November 10th issue of Business Week argues that "production 
everywhere is running ahead of consumption" and warns that overcapacity will get 
worse as Asia tries to export its way out of its economic mess. Undeterred by 
the fact that the very next article in the magazine sounds the alarm about a 
growing shortage of workers-and hence rising wage costs-in America, the authors 
conclude that "the global economy may well be heading into a new era-an era of 
deflation". Several prominent American economists, such as Ed Yardeni of 
Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, agree that Asia's overcapacity poses a deflationary 
risk to the world economy. 
What is the wider evidence that global supply is outpacing demand? Supporters of 
the global-glut thesis point to the fact that in all regions of the world, 
industrial production is currently growing faster than consumer spending. But 
this is misleading. The bulk of American consumer spending is on services, not 
goods. And manufacturing (which accounts for a mere 20% of GDP in most rich 
economies) tends to be more cyclical than services, so it is not surprising 
that, during an economic expansion, industrial production is outpacing total 
consumer spending. 
Bold claims about prices falling across the board as a result of excess supply 
are also misleading. It is true that the prices of many products, such as cars, 
computers and telephone calls, are falling. But the prices of many other things, 
including aerospace components, hotel rooms and business-class air tickets are 
still rising strongly. 
Letting off steam 
In essence, the global-glut thesis is based on two questionable assumptions 
about why overcapacity can only get worse. 
The first is the claim that global productive capacity is growing at an 
unprecedented rate. In fact, total investment in rich economies has actually 
fallen as a share of GDP over the past decade (see<DEST="CFN897" ref = chart ). 
It is true that capital spending by American firms, especially on information 
technology, has surged over the past few years; but that follows a decade of 
sluggish investment. Moreover, a large chunk of spending on computers and 
suchlike is intended either to boost productivity or to replace obsolete 
equipment, not to increase capacity. So the net increase in productive capacity 
has been much smaller than the gross investment figures suggest.<INLINE="CFN897" 
Where there has indeed been an investment boom over the past decade is in 
developing Asia. The region's investment increased from 23% of GDP in 1980 to 
36% last year. Overall, however, world investment has remained broadly unchanged 
in relation to world output over the past ten years. Moreover, a large chunk of 
the increased capital spending in Asia went into property, not manufacturing 
capacity. 
The second, even more dubious claim of the global glutters is that developing 
countries are adding far more to world supply than to demand. They argue that 
the millions of new workers in emerging markets do not earn enough to buy as 
much as they produce. As productivity has risen in developing economies, 
however, so have wages and hence consumption. Indeed, in recent years developing 
countries have been big net importers from the rest of the world. Of the 25 
emerging economies monitored each week by The Economist, 19 are running current-
account deficits (see<DEST="FOCUSP3.ETG" ref = article ). Developing economies 
as a group are expected to run a combined current-account deficit of more than 
$100 billion this year. 
Where the doom-mongers do have a point is that this deficit will shrink sharply 
over the next year, as a slump in domestic demand and big currency devaluations 
cause Asia to export more to the rich world. Much of Asia's new investment was 
intended to serve the regional market, but producers will now be looking for new 
markets further afield. 
Hence the growing fear that developed economies will be flooded with Asian 
goods. This could have serious implications for the Japanese economy, which has 
the closest trade links with the rest of Asia. After all, it comes at a time 
when Japan's domestic demand is already sagging and its financial sector is 
still on crutches (see<DEST="FN7014.ETG" ref = article ). But the impact on 
America and Europe will probably be modest. 
Many economists reckon that the slowdown in East Asia will shave 0.2-0.4 
percentage points off growth in America and the European Union next year, but 
0.5-0.7 points off Japan's growth. If the region's financial headaches get 
worse, with a widespread collapse of banks and a deep recession spreading to 
China and Japan, then the effects on America and Europe would be much more 
serious. But for the moment, such fears are overdone. 
A safety valve 
Much of the current debate about deflation reflects a misunderstanding about 
what the phenomenon really is. Deflation is a persistent fall in the general 
price level. If some prices fall because of cheaper imports from Asia, say, this 
is not deflation, but simply a change in relative prices. It is monetary policy 
that determines general inflation or deflation, not structural factors such as 
global competition. If the prices of imported goods decline, then so long as the 
money supply continues to grow at the same rate, spending on other goods (and 
hence their price) should increase. 
If supply did seriously exceed demand, central banks should simply cut interest 
rates. This is where the Fed went horribly wrong after the stockmarket crash in 
1929, when it raised interest rates and allowed the money supply to shrink. 
Between 1929 and 1933, prices fell by almost 30%. 
But America is not suffering from insufficient demand or tight money. Its broad 
money supply, M3 , is increasing at an annual 8.3%. Unemployment fell to a 24-
year low of 4.7% of the labour force in October. And hourly wages rose by 4.2% 
in the year to October-their biggest rise since 1989. 
Normally, this would be enough to cause the Fed to raise interest rates. 
However, the central bank is clearly taking account of events in Asia. From this 
point of view, a drop in American exports to Asia and a rise in its imports from 
the region may be no bad thing. It will absorb excess demand, and so help 
prolong America's expansion while keeping inflation low. 
If Asia's slowdown helps America's Fed and other central banks to keep a lid on 
inflation, it will reduce the need to raise interest rates by as much as would 
otherwise have been required. But in the long term, rates will still need to 
rise. Inflation, not deflation, remains the bigger risk.
