ECONOMY AND POLITICS IN MAY 1999
Setting the date of impeachment voting for May, high probability of an attempt 
to resolve the political crisis through dismissal of the Duma have made yet in 
April the political instability be main characteristical feature of May. The 
dismissal of Mr. Primakov's Cabinet right on the eve of the voting has of course 
sharpened the situation, since that put the executive and legislative branches 
of power on the edge of an open confrontation. By its essence, within the 
framework of an evlution logic the confrontation is not resolvable, and it 
requires a prompt transition to a quantitatively different political state of 
affairs.
Had the impeachment procedure begun, it would have guaranteed an impossibility 
of a (legal) dismissal of the Duma, and in that case the opposition undoubtedly 
would have supported Mr. Primakov's government (for example, by rejecting 
President's nominees for the Premiership). The failure of the impeachment 
procedure however has determined an absolutely opposite reaction. In more 
precise terms, one may single out the following factors which encouraged the 
Duma to approve Mr. Stepashin as Chairman of the government. The main part of 
those factors may be attributed to a threat of the dismissal of the Duma, should 
it reject the proposed or absolutely unacceptable, due to any reasons, nominee. 
The Duma deputies do not want the dismissal because of several reasons. First, 
at the present stage of the pre- election campaign that would have implied 
withdrawal of their financial and infrustructural resources needed for the 
campaign. Secondly, they would loose their stage for propaganda and, is 
especially important for the opposition today, a possibility to justify 
themselves before their electorate after the failure of the impeachment process. 
The fact that a part of the Duma corps was demoralized because of the failure to 
start the impeachment procedure also played its part. Nevertheless, in May '99 
the Duma's, and primarily its opposition majority's, general behavior was 
rational.
The new cabinet raises natural questions regarding initial socio- economic 
conditions and prospects of its activity.
The main result of the Primakov- Maslyukov government's performance was that 
this country has reached budgetary equilibrium. For the first time for the last 
10 years Russia's budget has a primary proficit. By its significance this fact, 
may be compared with the market equilibrium reached by Mr. Gaidar's government ( 
thanks to price liberalization) and sound monetary policy in Mr. Chubais' era. 
Meanwhile all three major components which provide macroeconomic stability and 
equilibrium, namely: market prices, tight money and balanced budget- are in 
place. It is this macroeconomic result of the leftist government's activity to 
which one may attribute a rapid stabilization of major economic parameters and 
partly- improving situation in the real sector.
The priority for the new government is to keep the inherited macroeconomic 
achievements, though it will be a tough challenge, since in the short- term 
perspective macroeconomic stabilization always results in a sharp deterioration 
of social indicators, primarily in fall in the population's living standards.
The previous government has paid a high price for obtaining the budgetary 
equilibrium: government expenditures were inflated practically two times. It 
will be hard to resist such a compression of expenditures, both in socio- 
political and economic terms. The lowering population's living standards are 
pregnant not only with a growth in social tension. The ongoing compression of 
demand naturally constrains development of the real sector on the import- 
substituting basis.
At the same time one should emphasize an extreme danger of an artificial 
stimulation of demand through monetary injections. That way will inevitably lead 
to a new crisis. During the '60s- 70s, many Latin American countries tried that 
option many times. However, the pressure towards such measures will be very 
mighty.
At the beginning of the previous government's term, the authors of its initial 
economic programs strongly advocated such concepts, which were not implemented. 
Traditional lobbyists and regional authorities probably would take any chance to 
increase their pressure on the new Cabinet, which will be encouraged by both the 
new Premier lacking economic experience and potential internal conflicts within 
the government which has been built upon the checks and balances principle. The 
new Cabinet is a coalition, not by its form but by the essence: the party 
coalition was replaced by the coalition representing various interest groups.
In the context of challenges the new government faces now, concluding an 
agreement with international financial institutions becomes a very practical 
task as a source of funds to maintain macroeconomic stability. At the same time 
the fact that the Duma would reject constructive cooperation with the 
government- and that is highly probable in the conditions of growing pre- 
election populism- would complicate the situation.
At the same time one can single out a number of positive matters which allow to 
count on the new government's capability not to surrender to a temptation to 
stimulate economic growth through increasing demand, and the government's 
capability to provide achieving positive economic results. First, that is price 
rise for oil: its immediate effect is not only creation of a macroeconomic 
stability base, but also an objective assistance to attracting capital to the 
Russian corporate securities market. Second, a mere keeping of stability would 
allow to register high statistical indices of the national economy's growth in 
the second half 1999 relative to its respective period of the prior year, on 
which a large - scale decline fell. Finally, in the third place, the fact that 
the new Cabinet is mostly "technocratic" and its key figures would be unlikely 
to take part in the forthcoming parliamentary election may become a factor of 
the Cabinet pursuing a sound economic policy. Furthermore, potentially the 
government can play a very important part as stabilizing factor in the society.
The Central Bank's policy is becoming of a crucial importance, whereas the 
stability of exchange rate is a mandatory condition for the creation of the 
economic stabilization base on the whole.
V. Mau, Y. Khokhlova 
Top
 
