 

2.3.6.1 Installing Slackware with setup

 
  

If you are installing Slackware, after creating partitions (and possibly swap space), use the command 

# setup 

This will present you will a menu-based procedure to walk you through the remaining steps of installation. 

The procedure described here corresponds to that found on the color144 and colrlite root disks; the other root disks may have slightly different procedures. 

The setup menu consists of the following items. Use the arrow keys to move over the items, and press or to select an item. 

Help 
	View the setup help file. 

Keymap 
	This option allows you to specify the keyboard mapping for your system if you do not have a US keyboard. A list of keymaps will be presented; select the appropriate item from the list. 

Quick 
	This allows you to select between ``quick'' and ``verbose'' installation modes. ``Verbose'' is the default, and is recommended for most installations (unless you've installed Slackware a dozen times, in which case you already know this). 

Make tags 
	This allows Slackware installation experts to create customized ``tag files'' for preselecting packages. This is only necessary for customizing the installation procedure in some way; you shouldn't have to concern yourself with this. 

Addswap 
	This will be the first item that most users will select to install Slackware. A list of available swap partitions will be displayed (those partitions with type ``Linux swap'' as set in fdisk). You will be able to specify which partitions you wish to use for swap space. You will then be asked if you wish to run mkswap on these partitions. 

If you have already executed mkswap and swapon (as described in Section 2.3.4) on your swap partitions, then you should not allow setup to execute mkswap on these partitions. 

Even if you have already executed mkswap and swapon, it is necessary to use the Addswap menu item: This ensures that your swap partitions will be available once you have the system installed. 

Be warned! Creating swap space on a partition will destroy data on that partition. Be sure that you're not wiping out data that you want to keep. 

If you select this menu item, you will be automatically prompted if you wish to proceed with the following items. In general, you should do this. 

Target 
	This item allows you to specify the partitions upon which Linux is to be installed. A list of available partitions (those with type ``Linux native'', as specified by fdisk) will be displayed, and you will be asked to enter the name of your Linux root partition, such as /dev/hda2. You will then be prompted for the type of filesystem that you wish to create; we suggest using the ext2fs filesystem type as described in Section 2.3.5. This will create a filesystem on the named partition---somewhat analogous to ``formatting'' the partition under MS-DOS. 

You will also be prompted for any other partitions that you might wish to use for Linux. For example, if you created a separate partition for /usr (see Section 2.2.3), you will be able to specify the name of the partition and the location where it should be mounted (as in /usr or /usr/bin). 

Be warned! Creating a filesystem on a partition will destroy all data on that partition. Be sure that you're not wiping out data that you want to keep. 

Even if you already created your filesystems using mke2fs (see Section 2.3.5), you must use the Target menu item to specify the partitions where Linux will be installed. 

Source 
	This menu item allows you to specify where you will be installing Slackware from, such as floppy, hard drive, or CD-ROM. 

If you are installing from hard drive, you will be asked what partition the Slackware files are found on, as well as the type of partition. For example, if you have the Slackware files on an MS-DOS partition, enter the name of the partition (such as /dev/hda1) and select MS-DOS FAT as the type. You will then be asked what directory the files may be found under on this partition. For example, if you have the Slackware files stored under the directory C:\SLACK on your MS-DOS partition, enter 

/slack 

as the location. Note that you should use forward slashes, not backslashes, in the pathname. 

If you are installing from CD-ROM, you will be asked the type of CD-ROM device that you are using, as well as what directory on the CD-ROM the files may be found in. Many CD-ROMs have the files contained within the directory /slakware, but this depends on the release. 

If you are installing Slackware Professional, two directories are used on the CD-ROM. slakware is used for the standard system which will install the files directly to your hard drive. slackpro is used for the CD-ROM-based system where many files are accessed directly from the CD-ROM. This can save diskspace, but accessing many files is also noticeably slower. Several other Slackware vendors provide the ability to run the software from the CD-ROM as well. However, if you have the diskspace to spare, we recommend not running Slackware from the CD-ROM itself. Performance is generally slower. 

If you are attempting a hard drive or CD-ROM install, Slackware may report that there is a mount error at this point. This is usually an indication that there was a problem accessing the hard drive or CD-ROM. See Section 2.5.3 for more information if you see such an error message. 

Disk sets 
	This menu option allows you to select the disk sets that you wish to install. You must install at least the A disk set. Simply use the arrow keys and spacebar to select which disk sets you wish to install. 

Note that selecting a particular disk set does not mean that all packages on the disk set will be installed; you will be prompted before installing packages on the disk set marked as ``optional'' or ``recommended.'' 

Install 
	
At long last, this menu item will install the software on your system. You will be prompted for the prompting method; most users should select ``normal.'' For each disk set that you selected, the ``required'' packages will be installed, and you will be prompted when installing the ``optional'' and ``recommended'' packages. If you are installing from floppy you will be asked to insert each floppy in succession. 

As each package is installed a short description will be printed. Unless you have background in UNIX or Linux, many of these descriptions will not mean much to you. Take note of which packages are being installed, so you know what's there, but don't worry about trying to jot down everything that's printed on the display. 

The most common error encountered here is that a file cannot be found on a floppy, or an I/O error when attempting to read the floppy. The former is an indication that the files on your floppy might be corrupted or incomplete; the latter that the floppy itself is bad. Any floppies which give these errors should be replaced, and you should re-install the disk set containing those floppies. See Section 2.5.3 for suggestions. 

You may also have read errors when attempting to access a CD-ROM; be sure that the CD-ROM is clean, has no fingerprints, etc. 

Configure 
	
This menu item performs some post-installation configuration of your system. This is covered in the following section. 



  


 
