 
		WEEKLY REVIEW
 	February 16-22, 1998  
  
On February 16, 1998, the Central Bank announced decrease of its refinancing 
rate from 42% to 39% effective February 17.  

The International Monetary Fund agreed to Russia’s 1998 economic program and 
extended a $10 billion loan agreement with Russia for another year until early 
2000. According to IMF Managing Director Michel Camdessus, who met with the 
Prime Minister Victor Chernomyrdin in Moscow, the extension would give Russia an 
additional year of financing and reassure investors who see the organisation’s 
presence as a guarantee reforms will stay on course.  

The government approved a list of major companies it plans to privatise in 1998. 
The list includes telecommunications holding company Svyazinvest, oil giant 
LUKoil, regional oil company Rosneft, TNK (Tyumenskaya Oil Company), Norsi Oil, 
VNK (Eastern Oil Company), Slavneft, and other companies. Many of the companies 
in the list have already been partly privatised. The biggest auctions are likely 
to be Svyazinvest, where a 24% stake could be worth as much as $3-$4 billion, 
Rosneft, which could raise $1.5-$2.0 billion for the whole company.  

Russia’s Federal Securities Commission annulled a registered issue of 
convertible bonds of oil holding company Sidanko. The $402 million bonds issue 
was registered December 17, 1997 and converted on a one-for-one basis into 
Sidanko shares. The commission launched an investigation this month of alleged 
violations of rights of the minority shareholders, who did not participate in 
the deal. The company intends to either register a new issue of convertible 
bonds or fight the commission’s decision in court.  

Sidanko and British Petroleum Exploration established a joint venture to develop 
a gas field in Irkutsk region. Sidanko owns 55% of the new company. British 
Petroleum Exploration intends to invest $172 mln into the project.  

Russian electricity firm Samaraenergo issued level-1 ADRs on its common and 
preferred shares. Each ADR will represent 10 common or 20 preferred shares. In 
March 1998, the company plans to do its road shows in London, New York and other 
major financial centres. The charter capital of the company is R576 mln. 
Russia’s UES owns a 56% stake in Samaraenergo.  

Regional Russian power utility Novosibirskenergo plans to issue global 
depository receipts (GDRs) on all of its outstanding shares (13.52 million 
common and 2.55 million preferred shares) in April or May 1998.  

A regional telecom Kubanelertrosvyaz will begin a two-week road show of its 
Level-1 ADRs in Europe and the United States February 23 1998. One 
Kubanelectrosvyaz ADR will be equivalent to two common shares.  

Novgorodtelecom submitted necessary documents to RTS to pass the RTS-2 listing 
procedure.  

Norilsk Nickel is considering cutting exports of metals this year and offering 
its products in the domestic market instead. Norilsk exports 65% of the world’s 
palladium and 25% of its platinum, 23% of its rhodium and 17% of nickel and 
cobalt. The company intends to develop local markets for nickel, copper and 
cobalt, using the connections of its biggest shareholder Uneximbank. Norilsk 
metals would find a ready market in some of Uneximbank’s production facilities. 
Uneximbank has controlling stakes in oil company Sidanko, Baltic Sea Shipping 
and Novolipetsk Steel Mill.  

Dalmoreproduct submitted its documents to RTS to pass the listing procedure for 
the company’s common shares. Dalmoreproduct, Russia’s largest fishing and 
seafood processing company located in Vladivostok in the Far East, exports the 
bulk of its production volume and controls 15% of Russia’s fish and seafood 
market.  

In 1997, the number of Uralsvyazinform‘s subscribers increased by 49 thousand. 
The company installed 22 thousand new access lines last year.  
  
	  
