 
  
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  
On July 1, the State Duma approved the Program of Russia’s state external 
borrowing for 1998. According to the program, the volume of external borrowing 
should not exceed $9.068 bln. The total amount of loans Russia can offer to 
foreign countries is limited to $400 mln.  

In June, Russia’s inflation rate decreased to 0.1% from 0.5% in May.  

On July 3, the deputies of Russia’s State Duma approved on third and final 
reading a bill on protecting rights of investors on securities market. This bill 
regulates terms of services offered by the professional participants of the 
securities market and additional requirements to them, determines the terms of 
placement of securities and responsibilities of the state regulating 
organisations on the market.  

On July 3, the State Duma approved the main part of the new Tax Code on first 
reading, which means that it may undergo significant changes between now and the 
second and third readings. During the week, the deputies also approved bills on 
the profits tax and imputed tax on small businesses. The profits tax will be 
reduced from 35% to 30%. The “imputed tax” will set a flat rate based on 
estimated sales for retail traders.  

On July 2, the State Duma rejected proposed changes to law on personal income 
tax that include lowering the maximum tax rate from 35% to 30%. The bill that 
orders companies to pay VAT as soon as they deliver goods was also rejected.  

On July 1, 1998, the total amount of “new” re-denominated currency in 
circulation was R120.7 bln, which is 86.2% of the total currency in circulation. 
“Old” currency worth R119.8 bln have been withdrawn from circulation.  
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas  

On July 2, the State Tax Service officials started to undertake measures to 
enforce immediate payment of outstanding debts of Gazprom to the federal budget. 
Head of the Tax Service Boris Fyodorov and head of the Federal Tax Police Sergey 
Almazov instructed their regional agencies to freeze Gazprom rouble and hard 
currency accounts, and to seize Gazprom’s assets not involved in production. It 
was also decided to check individual tax payments by Gazprom management for 
accuracy. The campaign to squeeze money out of Gazprom was sanctioned by the 
government, and included other strict measures such as the replacement of 
Gazprom’s CEO Rem Viakhirev, and the termination of the trust agreement for 
management of the government-owned Gazprom stake. After a meeting of state 
representatives in Gazprom it was decided to call back all the telegrams 
regarding seizure of the company’s assets. Agreement was reached on a monthly 
schedule of the budget debt repayment. Gazprom and the government intend to 
create a committee to solve the problem of non-payments by both parties. By 4 
p.m. July 2, the minimum limit of Gazprom share price was decreased to R2.02. By 
the end of the day the price of Gazprom shares on the Moscow Stock Exchange fell 
by 13.7%. On July 3, President Boris Yeltsin met with Rem Vyakhirev to discuss 
the mutual indebtedness of Gazprom and the government. Gazprom shares 
appreciated 14.8% to R2.32 that day.  

 Energy   

At the annual meeting of Biysk Thermoelectric Power Station on June 30, the 
shareholders voted against a merger of the station with Altaienergo. The merger 
was initiated by Russia’s UES, which owns 71% of Altaienergo and 31.5% of the 
Biysk station.  

Pskovenergo together with representatives of ABB, an international concern, 
intends to conduct negotiations with several Swiss banks for a $13 mln to $15 
mln loan for reconstruction of Pskovenergo’s Thermoelectric Power Station. After 
the reconstruction, the capacity of the station will be increased from 9 MW to 
14 MW.  

 Telecommunications  

Svyazingorm of Samara region has been preparing the documents for the RTS-1 
listing procedure. The company’s stock was delisted on February 11, 1998, 
because of procedure violations while registering a share issue.  

 Other Companies  

Nizhnekamsk Tire Plant plans to issue Level-1 ADRs. The company has been looking 
for a strategic investor since February 1998. The company’s managers have 
already met with representatives from Bridgestone and Michelin. At the meeting 
on June 27, Goodyear representatives expressed a strong interest in establishing 
co-operation with Nizhnekamsk Tire Plant.  
  
	
  
The following companies will not pay out dividends for 1997: Dalmoreproduct, 
Sakhaneftegas, TNK, Tebukneft, Nizhnevartovskneftegas, Yaroslavl Oil Refinery, 
Vyksa Metallurgical Plant, Biysk Thermoelectric Power Station.  
  
	 
  
On July 6, 1998, the following shares of RTS will be transferred to RTS-2: 
Chernogorneft, Electrosila, Electrosvyaz of Novosibirsk region, Electrosvyaz of 
Volgograd region, Yaroslavnefteorgsintez, Kirov Plant, Komineft, Solikamsk 
Magnesium Plant, NGTS, Noyabrskneftegas, Omsk Oil Refinery, RUSIA-Petroleum, 
Tomskneft.  

According to RTS President Dmitri Ponomarev, the RTS and RTS-2 will merge before 
September 1, 1998. From now on the rules of trading in RTS-2 will be the same as 
those in RTS. The minimum lot size will be increased from $1,000 to $5,000.  

The management of RTS decided to continue trading in shares of NOSTA in RTS-2 
after the company expressed its willingness to provide all necessary 
information.  

On June 30, the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) started trading in 
new derivative products called “futures contracts with features of option 
contracts”. By its economic nature the instruments are similar to put and call  
options. At the same time, the settlement scheme works as that of a futures 
contact. The instrument’s underlying asset is the US dollar.  

On Monday the yields on GKOs with long maturities grew from 79% to 85-90%. The 
yields declined somewhat Tuesday. On Wednesday, the weighted average GKO yield 
was 71.95%. By the end of the week, the yields on “long” GKOs grew from 79-81% 
to 85-86%.  
  
	 
  
		The RTS Index decreased by 7.7% on the week. The trading volume for 
the week totalled $ 113.3 mln..
   
 
   
