


              The State Bank of the Russian Empire

        The State Bank of the Russian Empire was founded in
        1860 in the process of reorganisation of Russia's
        entire banking system. It was established when
        capitalism was taking root in the Russian Empire and
        its creation was the first of the "great reforms",
        by the Russian Emperor Alexander II. Considerable
        state interference in the economy, necessitated by
        the specific conditions of Russia's economic
        development, predetermined the genesis of the State
        Bank as an institutional element of the government's
        economic policy.

        The State Bank was a short-term commercial credit
        bank and, according to its statute, it was
        established "to boost trade turnovers and strengthen
        the monetary credit system". Its functions were to
        discount bills of exchange and other government and
        public interest-bearing securities and foreign
        bills, buy and sell gold and silver, receive payment
        on bills and other fixed-term monetary documents for
        the account of trustees, accept deposits, extend
        loans and buy government securities for its own
        account.

        The activities of the State Bank of the Russian
        Empire may be divided into two periods. During the
        first period (from 1860 to 1894) the State Bank was
        largely an auxiliary institution of the Finance
        Ministry. Most of the State Bank resources during
        that period were absorbed by direct and indirect
        financing of the Treasury. It was vested with the
        functions pertaining to the Finance Ministry
        apparatus: conducting the buy-out transactions and
        handling all paperwork related to them, propping up
        the state mortgage banks, and so on. Until 1887 the
        State Bank had settled the accounts of the
        pre-reform banks. All settlement operations were to
        be conducted at the State Treasury's expense, which
        was a debtor to these banks, but since the budget
        deficit made it impossible for the Treasury to
        provide necessary funds, the State Bank each year
        until 1872 used a large part of its commercial
        profit for these purposes. The government debt to
        the State Bank was settled during the second period
        of the State Bank's activities (in 1901). Throughout
        the entire pre-revolutionary period the State Bank,
        being an instrument of the government's economic
        policy, participated in establishing and
        subsequently supported commercial banks (for
        example, it extended unstatutable loans to them).
        Bankrupt banks were subsidised, financed, acquired
        or taken into receivership by the State Bank before
        being sold.

        In the early 1880s the State Bank began to prepare a
        monetary reform, which was launched in 1895 and
        ended in 1898 with the introduction of gold
        monometallism in Russia. In the course of the reform
        the State Bank was granted the issuing rights.

        The State Bank's second period began with the
        adoption of its new charter in 1894. After the
        monetary crisis of 1905-1906 caused by the
        Russo-Japanese war and revolution, the State Bank
        began to be transformed into a banks' bank. By the
        beginning of the First World War the State Bank had
        become one of the most influential credit
        institutions in Europe. It had vast gold reserves,
        whose ratio never fell below 93%, except in the
        crisis year of 1906, and on average exceeded 100%.
        The State Bank regulated Russia's money circulation
        and foreign exchange settlements and through
        commercial banks actively participated in crediting
        industry and trade.

        During the First World War the State Bank was mainly
        engaged in financing Russia's war effort and on the
        eve of the October 1917 revolution the lion's share
        of its assets was represented by treasury bills and
        loans against interest-bearing securities. Its gold
        reserves shrank from 1,604 million roubles as of
        June 16, 1914, to 1,101 million roubles as of
        October 8, 1917. The pre-revolutionary history of
        the State Bank ended on October 25 (November 7),
        1917, when its Soviet history began.

