 
  
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  

According to the State Statistics Committee, Russia’s DGP declined 0.2% year-on-
year in the first five months of 1998. According to estimates of the Ministry of 
Economy, the change in GDP in 1998 is likely to be in the range of plus 0.5% to 
minus 0.5%. 

On June 23, the Russian government presented its stabilisation programme to the 
State Duma. Among other measures intended to support the domestic economy, it is 
planned to decrease tariffs on gas, electricity and railroad transportation. A 
decrease of the budget revenues as a result of these measures will be 
compensated by introduction of a 5% sales tax, a tax on small businesses and 
widening the taxpayer base with simultaneous lowering of the personal income 
tax. To create the necessary legal framework for implementation of the 
programme, the government will submit more than twenty legislation bills to the 
Duma. 

IMF deputy director Stanley Fischer conducted a series of discussions with 
Anatoly Chubais, who is responsible for relations with international financial 
organisations, regarding a release of $670 million tranche of the IMF loan to 
Russia. The IMF board of directors approved the release of the instalment on 
June 25. The total amount of loans received by Russia from the IMF under the 
Extended Facility program is $5.8 billion. Russia is also seeking a $10 billion 
to $15 billion bailout package to support the rouble. 

At the meeting of the OPEC on June 24, 1998, it was announced that the oil 
exporting countries would cut production by 1.355 mln barrels per day. Russia, 
which has a status of an observer at the OPEC, announced export cuts equivalent 
to 100,000 bpd. 

As of June 19, the foreign exchange and gold reserves of Russia’s Central Bank 
totalled $14.7 bln, down from $15.7 bln a week earlier. The decline of reserves 
was a result of outlays by the Russian Finance Ministry on foreign debt 
servicing and Central Bank’s operations on the foreign exchange market. On June 
26, combined foreign exchange and gold reserves of the Central Bank and the 
Ministry of Finance totalled $16 bln.  

According to Farit Gazizullin, Russia’s Minister of State Property, the Property 
Ministry has prepared an IMF-approved priority privatisation list of fifteen 
companies for 1999. 
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas  

At the Gazprom shareholders meeting on June 26, Farit Gazizullin Russia’s 
Minister of State Property, was unanimously elected the company’s board 
chairman. Rem Vyakhirev will remain the company’s CEO. 

The board of directors of Gazprom has set a limit for foreign investments in the 
company at $5 bln for 1998. In 1998, Gazprom plans to issue guaranteed 
convertible bonds and the second tranche of ADRs. In 1997, Gazprom borrowed in 
excess of $7 bln in the international markets.  

British Petroleum and Shell have confirmed their intention to participate in the 
Rosneft tender in consortium with Russian companies. 

By the end of 1998, Tyumen Oil Company (TNK) plans to complete the negotiations 
on arranging a $600 mln loan from the US Export-Import Bank. 

Slavneft will not make a transfer to a unified share for all its subsidiaries in 
1998. At the end of 1998 or at the beginning of 1999, the company plans to issue 
Eurobonds. 

Sidanko will issue convertible bonds at the end of 1998. 

 Energy   

Mosenergo has signed a contract with the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development for a $30 mln loan to finance completion of Zagorsk Hydro 
Accumulating Electric Power Station in the Moscow region. Mosenergo’s general 
director reported that the company had received a similar credit worth $20 bln 
from the International Finance Corporation. In 1997, Zagorsk Hydro produced 
958.2 mln kW/h of electric energy that represents 1.43% of Mosenergo’s total 
production. In October or November 1998, Mosenergo will conduct an extraordinary 
meeting to consider an additional share issue. 

According to Alexander Lopatin, Russia’s UES treasury director, the company will 
decrease its stakes in some subsidiaries, for example, in Tyumenenergo. 

 Telecommunications  

Rostelecom plans to increase digitalisation of Russia’s long-distance network to 
100% by 2006 that will allow the company to cut maintenance costs by about 30%. 
The company has been implementing its cost-cutting program. In 1998, Rostelecom 
will cut its personnel by 1,500 to 36,000. 

Bashinformsvyaz has submitted to SEC the documentation required to issue Level-1 
ADRs. 

Kazan GTS has conducted a share split. The par value of the company’s shares 
after the 1:100 split is 100 «old» roubles. 

The board of directors of MMT (Moscow) did not approve the decision to split the 
company’s shares. 

 Other Companies  

Magnitogorsk Metallurgical Plant has been reported to receive an international 
credit rating and is expected to enter international financial markets by the 
end of August 1998. 
  
	 
The following companies will not pay out dividends for 1997: Nizhnii Tagil 
Metallurgical Plant, Khimprom of Cheboksary, VSMPO, Permenergo, Sidanko. 
  
	 
  
Beginning with June 29, 1998, RTS-2 starts trading in common and preferred 
shares of Yamalelectrosvyaz and discontinues trading in common shares of NOSTA. 
On June 25, RTS-2 stopped trading by shares of Kazan State Telephone Network due 
to the conversion of its shares. 

On Monday, “long” GKO yield decreased to 56% compared to 57% on Friday last 
week. On Tuesday, the yield increased to 58%. By the end of the week “long” GKO 
yield increased from 66% on Thursday to 79% on Friday. 

On June 23, Victor Sakharov resigned from his position of the acting President 
of Rossiiskaya Birzha. Panov has been appointed First Vice President of the 
exchange until the extraordinary meeting that will take place on July 16, 1998. 
On June 23, there was no trading on Rossiiskaya Birzha. 
  
	 
