Approved by the decision
of the National Banking Council
under the Bank of Russia on April 24, 1997

                The Statute of the National Banking Council
              under the Central Bank of the Russian Federation
                              (Bank of Russia)

1. The National Banking Council under the Bank of Russia, hereinafter
referred to as the Council, is a standing consultative body, set up in
accordance with the Federal Law on the Central Bank of the Russian
Federation (Bank of Russia) in order to upgrade the monetary and credit
system of the Russian Federation.

2. The Council shall be guided in its activities by the Constitution of the
Russian Federation, federal laws and decrees of the President of the
Russian Federation, decisions by the Government of the Russian Federation,
Bank of Russia regulatory rules on matters within the Council's competence,
and this Statute.

3. The Council shall perform the following functions:

   * it shall consider the concept of upgrading the banking system of the
     Russian Federation;
   * it shall examine draft guidelines for a Government’s uniform monetary
     policy, foreign exchange regulation and foreign exchange control
     policy, compile reports on them and analyse the results of their
     implementation;
   * it shall conduct expert evaluation of banking draft laws and
     regulatory rules;
   * it shall consider the most significant questions of regulating and
     supervising credit organisations’ activities;
   * it shall participate in the elaboration of the main principles of
     organising the settlements system of the Russian Federation.

4. The Bank of Russia Chairman shall be the Chairman of the Council.

5. The Council shall be composed of:

   * two representatives from each house of the Federal Assembly of the
     Russian Federation;
   * a representative of the President of the Russian Federation;
   * a representative of the Government of the Russian Federation;
   * the Minister of Finance of the Russian Federation;
   * the Minister of Economics of the Russian Federation;
   * members of the Council appointed by the State Duma at the request of
     the Bank of Russia Chairman.

The National Banking Council shall not have more than 15 members.

6. The two houses of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, the
President of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Russian
Federation shall appoint their representatives in accordance with the
established procedure and shall notify the Bank of Russia Chairman about
the corresponding appointments.

7. The Bank of Russia Chairman shall submit the names of the candidates for
appointment as members of the Council to the State Duma.
Should the nominated candidates be rejected, the Bank of Russia Chairman
shall submit new proposals to the State Duma of the Russian Federation
within a month.

8. A member of the Council may forfeit his/her powers for the following
reasons:

   * if he or she wishes, except for persons who are members of the Council
     ex officio;
   * if an ex officio member of the Council resigns;
   * if he or she is unable to perform his or her duties as a member of the
     Council;
   * if a member of the Council is recalled by the body that appointed him.

9. Should the members of the Council appointed by the State Duma at the
request of the Bank of Russia Chairman be unable to fulfil their duties,
the Chairman of the Council shall notify the State Duma about the need to
recall them.

10. The Chairman of the Council shall represent the latter in relationships
with the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, the President of the
Russian Federation, the Government of the Russian Federation, the
governmental bodies of the constituent territories of the Russian
Federation and credit and other organisations.

11. The members of the Council shall have the right:

   * to raise questions for discussion at Council meetings and receive in
     accordance with the established procedure draft laws and Bank of
     Russia regulatory rules and also Bank of Russia analytical and
     information materials on questions within the competence of the
     Council;
   * to participate in the working groups which prepare materials for
     Council meetings;
   * to represent the Council in relations with third persons at the
     instructions of the Council.

12. The members of the Council shall be obliged:

   * to attend the Council meetings;
   * not to divulge inside information about the activities of the Bank of
     Russia or confidential information.

13. The members of the Council shall fulfil their duties without pay.

14. The Council shall meet at least every three months.

The meetings of the Council shall be called by the Chairman of the Council
or at the request of at least three Council members.

15. A Council meeting shall be considered valid if it is attended by at
least eight members of the Council. Council meetings shall be chaired by
the Chairman of the Council or, in his absence, by a Council member named
by the Chairman of the Council.

16. The agenda of the Council meetings shall be set by the Chairman of the
Council, who shall take into account the proposals of the Council members.
Council members shall be notified about a Council meeting at least seven
days in advance. The final agenda of each Council meeting shall be approved
at the beginning of the given meeting.

17. The Council may invite to its meetings specialists and experts in the
matters discussed at its meetings.

18. The decisions of the Council (reports and recommendations) shall be
formalised in minutes signed by the Chairman of the Council. The minutes of
the Council meetings shall be sent to the members of the Council.

19. If necessary, some decisions of the Council may be taken by open voting
according to a majority of the total number of Council members attending
the meeting.
Should the votes be split, the vote of the Chairman of the Council shall be
decisive.

20. At the request of the Council recommendations (reports) shall be made
known to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, the President of
the Russian Federation, the Government of the Russian Federation, the
appropriate federal executive bodies as well as the Bank of Russia’s Board
of Directors, credit and mass organisations and mass media. Information
about the Council meetings and the decisions taken at them shall be
published in the Bank of Russia Bulletin (Vestnik Banka Rossii).

21. To prepare its materials and work out draft decisions (recommendations
and reports), the Council may form temporary working groups and enlist
specialists and experts.

22. Organisational and technical support of Council activities shall be
provided by the Secretariat of the Bank of Russia Chairman.

23. The Council shall have a letter-head bearing its full name, Natsionalny
Bankovsky Sovet pri Banke Rossii, and use the abbreviation NBS. The Council
members shall have official membership cards.
