 
	ECONOMICS     

Russia’s Central Bank decreased its refinancing rate from 36% to 30% effective 
March 16, 1998.  
Fitch IBCA, the international credit rating agency, confirmed its BB+ long-term 
foreign currency rating of the Russian Federation. The short-term foreign 
currency rating also remains unchanged at B.  

Moody’s Investor Services downgraded Russia’s ceiling for foreign currency bonds 
and notes from Ba2 to Ba3 and lowered the country’s ceiling for foreign currency 
bank loans from Ba3 to B1.  

Russia’s upper house of parliament, The Federation Council passed the 1998 
budget. The budget will come into effect after it is signed by the President. 
President Yeltsin is going to sign the 1998 budget into law after he gets it 
from the Federation Council.  

Russia’s GDP will grow 1.5% year-on-year in the first quarter of 1998. It is 
expected that the inflation rate will be 0.5-0.6% and industrial production will 
increase by 3% year-on-year in March 1998.  
  
  
	COMPANIES     

 Oil & gas  
  
Leading Russian oil companies Yukos and Sibneft, which announced their plans to 
merge earlier this year, have registered the new company under the name of Yuksi 
Oil Co. Yuksi will become the core of the integrated oil holding that will be 
Russia’s largest oil producer.  

LUKoil signed an agreement with Conoco to jointly develop four Timan-Pechora 
fields in Nenets autonomous region. Conoco, with headquarters in Houston, Texas, 
is the seventh largest US oil company by output. Total investment in the project 
will reach $20 billion.  

At the extraordinary meeting, the shareholders of the Eastern Oil Company (VNK) 
decided to pass effective control of the company to Rosprom that will serve as 
the external manager. Roprom-Yukos group owns a 54% stake in VNK.  

 Energy  
  
The Russian government recommended Anatoly Chubais, a prominent First Deputy 
Prime Minister, to the position of chairman of the board of Russia’s UES.  

Based on the current difficult financial condition of the company, the board of 
directors of Krasnoyarsk Hydro will suggest at the general shareholders meeting 
to pay no dividends for 1997.  

Krasnoyarskenergo’s general shareholders meeting will consider a six-fold 
increase of the charter capital through a revaluation of the fixed assets. The 
charter capital is currently R754 mln.  

 Telecommunications  
  
On March 2, 1998, Kubanelectrosvyaz (located in Krasnodar territory) and The 
Bank of New York reached a decision to start converting the company’s shares 
into level-1 ADRs. The ADRs on common shares will be initially traded on the US 
OTC market. In the near future the ADRs will be listed on Berlin and Frankfurt 
stock exchanges. It is planned to also list them of London and Luxembourg stock 
exchanges.  

 Other Companies  

A new holding company grouping heavy machinery producers Uralmash Plants and 
Izhorskie Plants was created to strengthen the market positions and improve 
money-raising abilities of both firms in international financial markets. The 
new company with sales of $500 million will be created through a share swap in 
which shareholders Izhorskiye Plants will be offered nine Uralmash Plants shares 
for one share of Izhorskiye Plants.  

Boeing signed a $175 million five-year contract with Russia’s Verkhnya Salda 
Metallurgical Production Association (VSMPO) to buy milled titanium products. 
The contract amount is likely to rise to $200 million.  

The main production line of KamAZ, which was not working since the beginning of 
January, will be restarted on April 1, 1998.  
  
	 
