 
  
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  

Tuesday, March 31. The State Duma calls for President Yeltsin to conduct "round 
table" talks on forming the new government and withdraw Kirienko's nomination 
for the time being.  

Wednesday, April 1. President Boris Yeltsin invites the Duma Speaker Gennady 
Seleznyov and Yegor Stroyev, speaker of the Federation Council, or upper house, 
for a meeting Thursday.  

Thursday, April 2. At the meeting with Seleznyov and Stroyev, Yeltsin agrees to 
lead the "round table" talks on forming the government on Friday. He sends new 
letter to the Duma nominating Kirienko again but effectively extending the 
deadline for Duma debate by one week. TASS quotes Zyuganov saying the communists 
would reject Kirienko in three votes if necessary. If Yeltsin's candidate is 
rejected three times, the Constitution stipulates new Duma elections.  

On January 1, 1998, Russia's state internal debt totalled R500.96 bln (about $83 
bln). In 1997, the debt increased by R135.36 bln or by 37%.  

According to the official data of Russia's State Statistics Committee, the 
inflation rate was 0.6% in March 1998.  
  
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas  

On March 30, 1998, level-2 ADRs of Tatneft were listed at the NYSE. One share of 
the company will represent 5 level-2 ADRs.  

Miller & Lents completed an international audit of Eastern Oil Company (VNK). 
According to the audit, proven reserves of VNK are 2.3 billion barrels of oil.  

Sibneft received a $51.5 mln syndicated credit for six months from Raiffeisen 
Zentralbank Oesterreich AG.  

 Telecommunications  

Russian telecom holding company Svyazinvest, Novosibirsk State Telephone Network 
and Electrosvyaz of Novosibirsk region signed an agreement to coordinate their 
investment policies in the territory of Novosibirsk region. The agreement 
provides for creation of the two Novosibirsk telecoms' joint technical council. 
A similar agreement is being prepared between two telecoms in Kaliningrad 
region: Electrosvyaz of Kaliningrad region and joint venture WestBaltTelecom.  

Electrosvyaz of Irkutsk region prepares to issue level-1 ADRs and to make an 
additional issue of shares.  

 Energy   

Officials representing the government interests at Russia's national electricity 
company UES will urge the board of directors to remove Boris Brevnov from his 
CEO position. The spokesman for the committee of the government representatives 
said they would recommend deputy fuel and energy minister Viktor Kudryavy for 
the post of chairman of the board. Shareholders are due to elect the new board 
of director on Saturday. Oleg Britvin, currently first deputy CEO, will be 
recommended to replace Brevnov at a board meeting on Friday. Brevnov had himself 
requested to be relieved of his duties on March 25, 1998.  

Krasnoyarskenergo signed an agreement with TaNaKî that will pass trustee 
management of a 20% stake in Krasnoyarsk Hydro owned by TaNaKî to 
Krasnoyarskenergo. According to the Krasnoyarsk Hydro's press release, the 
agreement means that Krasnoyarskenergo agrees that the purchase of the stake by 
TaNaKî in 1997 was legal.  

 Other Companies  

Norilsk Nickel, the giant Arctic Circle metal producer, raised $382 mln through 
a new placement of its common shares. The resources will be spent on the 
priority investment projects such as buying modern mining equipment for its 
subsidiary Norilsk Plant and Severonickel Plant. In 1998, Norilsk Nickel plans 
to issue level-1 ADRs. The company currently works out a scheme to convert its 
preferred shares to common.  
  
	 
