   
	
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  

According to the Central Bank of Russia, the country's foreign currency and gold 
reserves were $17 billion on April 1, 1998. The reserves totalled $15 billion on 
March 1 and $15.4 billion on February 1, 1998.  

The Russian Federation will have a roadshow of its planned lira-denominated 
eurobond in Italy next week. Russia intends to raise 750 billion lire ($418 
million) with the issue. The bonds are expected to pay a coupon of around 9-10% 
and have a maturity of at least five years.  

In the first vote on Friday, the majority of the State Duma deputies voted 
against Sergey Kiriyenko's candidacy for the Prime Minister position. Kiriyenko 
received only 143 votes, while 186 deputies voted against his candidacy.  

On April 9, about one million people participated in the nationwide protests 
against mounting wage arrears.  
  
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas 

LUKoil, Tatarstan-based oil company Tatneft, the Central Fuel Company and the 
governments of Moscow and Tatarstan signed an agreement to integrate oil 
production, exploration, transportation and refining, as well as develop markets 
for oil and oil products. The signatories may make joint bids in forthcoming 
privatisations. Russia's autonomous republic of Tatarstan and LUKoil each plan 
to buy 13% in the Moscow Central Fuel Company that concentrates on downstream 
operations and serves the city of Moscow and the surrounding region. By the end 
of this year, Central Fuel Company intends to offer 24% minus one share equity 
stake to a single western oil company.  

Oil company Rosneft-Sakhalinmorneftegas and American company Arco plan a joint 
participation in a tender of Sakhalin-4 project to develop Sakhalin oil and gas 
offshore fields. Rosneft signed similar agreement on Sakhalin-5 project with 
British Petroleum. In 1997, oil extracting of Rosneft increased by 301,000 
tonnes and totalled 13,042,000 tonnes. In 1998, the company plans to extract 
12,850,000 tonnes. In 1997, profit before tax fell by $152 million and totalled 
$184 million. In 1998, the company plans to increase its pre-tax profit to $226 
million.  

In summer 1998, oil companies UKOS and Sibneft will start a transfer to the 
single share of UKSI. The holding has already submitted a request to the State 
Antimonopoly Committee to allow the share exchange.  

 Energy   

On April 4, 1998, Russia's EUS held an extraordinary meeting. Anatolii Chubais 
won a seat on the board of the company. Boris Brevnov, who stepped down as the 
CEO of UES, also won a directorship. Acting deputy fuel and energy minister 
Vikor Kudryavy was voted in as the board chairman by the shareholders.  

The largest Russian regional utility company, Mosenergo, intends to purchase 
Kashira and Shatura thermoelectric power stations, which are currently in state 
property. The value of each company is estimated at about $300 million.  

Novosibirskenergo will postpone its GDR issue until mid-June because it still 
does not have a financial consultant.  

 Telecommunications  

The Ministry of State Property announced an open tender to value a 25% minus two 
shares stake in Svyazinvest. Both Russian and foreign companies are allowed to 
participate. The tender commission, which will make the final decision on the 
initial price and the tender investment conditions, will be formed on April 23, 
1998.  
  
	 
