   
		Portfolio managment  
The Profit House financial company offers professional portfolio management 
services to both institutional and high net worth individual investors. We 
consider it critical to understand special needs of each investor so that we can 
apply the right resources to adding significant value to their portfolio. 
Portfolio diversification allows us to minimize risk and improve return compared 
to investment in only one sector of the market.  
The portfolio structure and management option are determined individually based 
on the Client’s risk tolerance and time frame preference. Our objective is to 
achieve for our Client a sustainable superior performance over a long period.    
Profit House manages every Client account as a separate portfolio based on that 
Client's investment objectives. Most Client's objectives place them into one of 
three portfolio categories.  
  
  

	  
	Portfolios 
 
 	Fixed Income 
	Equities 
	Balanced 
	 Composed of fixed-income securities only (GKO, OFZ, OGSZ);  
 The government securities are less risky compared to corporate equities;  
 In the long run and under professional management, fixed-income securities make 
it possible to receive comparatively high return;   
 High liquidity;  
 According to the existing tax laws, coupon income received from OFZ and OGSZ, 
as well as price appreciation return of GKO, is not taxed.
 	 Composed of Russian equities only;  

Relatively high volatility;  

Under highly qualified management the market volatility provides an 
extraordinary return;  

Significantly undervalued Russian equities have significant upside potential.
 	 Composed of the government securities as well as equities;  

Investing in both bonds and stocks allows to minimise risk;  

Individual approach to satisfying the Client’s needs makes it possible to form 
the optimal portfolio that provides the highest expected return at the specified 
level of risk.
     
  
Clients may choose the level of control they wish to exercise over their 
investments.  
   
		Management Options 
 
 	Discretionary 
	Advisory 
	 Profit House is authorised to carry out all trades without consulting the 
Client;  

On the basis of the report, the Client may change the strategy of further 
investments.
 	 Profit House provides the Client with all the necessary information 
regarding the securities market;   
 Taking into account the recommendations, the Client places buy/sell orders.
 Under discretionary management, Profit House assumes responsibility for 
managing the client's portfolio. This primarily involves the evaluation and 
selection of suitable investments, monitoring these investments on a continuing 
basis, and trading securities or reinvesting as necessary to take profits, avoid 
losses, maximize income, or rebalance the portfolio. Under advisory management, 
we offer our investment advice but the decisions are ultimately made by the 
Client.  

Regardless of the management option the investor chooses, at the end of each 
month he receives a report detailing all trades and the current portfolio value. 
At the request of the Client, the report is available at any time. Reports are 
accompanied by a cover letter that discusses subjects of importance for the 
Client’s portfolio, ranging from individual stocks and bonds to the state of the 
market or the economy. We also are available to meet quarterly to personally 
review the portfolio and address any questions or concerns the Client might 
have.  
    
  

   
		Investment Horizon 
 
 	Long 
	Short 
	 Minimum investment period - 1 year;  
 Minimum amount - USD30,000;  
 Recommended minimum period - 2 years.
 	 Minimum investment period - 6 months;  
 Minimum amount - USD30,000.
 Each Client is assigned a separate account containing the following 
information:  

 quantity and types of shares and/or fixed-income instruments in the portfolio;  
 transactions with securities included in the portfolio;  
 current market value of the Client’s assets.  

The value of the portfolio is calculated on the date of the report. Fixed-income 
securities are values using the weighted average price of MICEX trades. The best 
bid price at the end of the trading day in the RTS is used to value equities.  

The main principles behind our investment philosophy are to seek basic value, to 
maintain long-term perspective and to seek growth over time. Basic value and 
growth opportunities may be found in stocks of the country's largest companies, 
but they also may be found in lesser-known, smaller companies. Our practice is 
to select a diverse group of securities suited to the Client’s requirements, 
then monitor their progress regularly using our extensive resources.  

    

  
