

              Exchange Rate Policy

        In 1997 the Central Bank of the Russian Federation
        implemented its exchange-rate policy in the general
        context of monetary policy pursued by the Government
        of the Russian Federation and the Bank of Russia and
        this policy was an additional factor of financial
        stabilisation.

        The main objectives of the exchange-rate policy were
        to ensure stability of the national currency and
        create conditions conducive to the dynamic
        development of the financial market.

        The rouble stabilisation policy, pursued since July
        1995, has produced tangible results. The “currency
        band” not only set the lowest limit on the exchange
        rate of the rouble, giving direction to importers,
        but also prevented a sharp rise of the national
        currency, making things easier for Russian
        exporters. The setting of the lowest level of the
        current exchange rate was a strong anti-inflationary
        factor, which made it possible to effectively curb
        the rate of internal depreciation of the rouble.

        In 1996 the exchangel rate of the US dollar to the
        rouble rose by 19.8%, from 4,640 roubles to 5,560
        roubles, which represents a monthly average of 1.5%.
        Since inflation in Russia ran at 21.8% a year and
        was about 3% in the United States, over the year the
        exchange rate of the rouble declined by 1.3%.

        During the first 10 months (from January to October)
        of 1997 the dollar rose by 5.9% against the rouble
        (from 5,560 roubles to 5,887 roubles), which
        represents a monthly average of 0.6%. However,
        adjusted to inflation in Russia and the United
        States, the exchange rate of the rouble grew by
        1.6%.

        From May 1996 the Bank of Russia changed the
        procedure for setting the official rate of the
        rouble against major foreign currencies, abandoning
        the practice of fixing the official rate on the
        basis of the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange
        rate. Each business day at 10:00 am Moscow Time the
        Bank of Russia announces the buy and sell rates of
        the US dollar on its operations in the interbank
        currency market. These rates are set taking into
        account the ratio of current demand for foreign
        currency and its supply on the interbank and
        exchange currency markets, inflation rate dynamics,
        the situation in the international currency markets,
        change of the size of the state international
        reserves and the country’s balance of payments
        dynamics. The arithmetical mean of the buy and sell
        rates gives the official US dollar rate to the
        Russian rouble for the next calendar day. In 1998
        the difference between the official rate and the buy
        and sell rates of the dollar will not exceed 1.5%.

        A major stage in the development of the foreign
        exchange policy was the adoption by the Government
        of the Russian Federation and the Bank of Russia in
        June 1996 of international obligations to lift
        restrictions on rouble convertibility in current
        operations. That decision, taken in connection with
        Russia’s joining Article VIII of the IMF Articles of
        Agreements, created entirely new conditions for the
        exchange-rate fixing process and for attracting
        foreign investors to the Russian market.

        The progress made in financial stabilisation made it
        possible in 1997 to set the limits of the “currency
        band” for the whole year. Allowing for possible
        minor deviations from the economic development
        scenario written for 1997, the Joint Statement by
        the Russian Government and Bank of Russia set the
        upper and lower limits of the exchange rate at 5,500
        roubles and 6,100 roubles per US dollar at the
        beginning of the year and 5,750 roubles and 6,350
        roubles per US dollar at the end.

        Macroeconomic stabilisation and increased stability
        of the Russian financial market set new tasks for
        the Bank of Russia and the government exchange rate
        policy. On November 10, 1997, the Russian Government
        and Bank of Russia issued a joint statement
        announcing a switch from the practice of placing
        annual limits on rouble rate fluctuations to the
        policy of setting medium-term targets for the rouble
        exchange rate dynamics. The Russian Government and
        Bank of Russia intend by means of their budget,
        monetary and foreign exchange policy to maintain
        such conditions in the currency market that during
        the next few years (1998-2000) the central rouble
        exchange rate will be at the level of 6.2 roubles to
        the dollar (after denomination) and will not be
        allowed to fluctuate by more than 15% both ways.
        This tactic is designed to ensure a gradual, smooth
        transition to a new stage of foreign exchange
        policy, a transition precluding any sharp
        fluctuations of the exchange rate. At the same time,
        the Bank of Russia believes that occasionally the
        rouble exchange rate may come under strong influence
        of various internal and external factors, which may
        cause it to fluctuate significantly but within the
        preset limits.

        In 1998 the major objectives of the Bank of Russia
        exchange-rate policy will be as follows:

        - increasing external and internal stability of the
        national currency;

        - encouraging dedollarisation of the Russian economy
        by assisting the dynamic development of all sectors
        of the financial market and making rouble savings
        more attractive for the population;

        -creating conditions for the structural improvement
        of the balance of payments and intensification of
        the investment process.

        It is important that the exchange-rate policy should
        be predictable and give clear direction to economic
        agents. In 1998, using its monetary and foreign
        exchange policy, the Bank of Russia will seek to
        maintain the average exchange rate of the rouble at
        the level of 6.1 rouble to the dollar throughout the
        year. Similar objectives will be set for the years
        to come.

