 
  
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  

On July 31, Russia’s foreign exchange and gold reserves totalled $18.4 bln, 
compared to $19.2 bln one week earlier. 

On August 3, Boris Yeltsin signed the first part of the Tax Code. The Russian 
President rejected federal laws “On Foreign Investment in the Russian 
Federation” and “On Investment Activities in Form of Capital Investment in the 
Russian Federation”. 

According to Russia’s State Statistics Committee, inflation rate was 0.2% in 
July 1998. 

According to Russia’s State Statistics Committee, Russia’s GNP decreased by 0.5% 
year-on-year in July 1998. 

Russia’s government plans to raise up to R3.5 bln in 1998 by selling its equity 
stakes in Slavneft, LUKoil and Norsi-Oil. 

The State Duma will consider further steps of the stabilisation programme during 
its extraordinary session on August 19 or 20. 

Russia’s government decided to raise about $3 bln through Eurobond issues by the 
end of 1998. 

A $300 mln first tranche of the World Bank’s third loan to Russia will be 
disbursed on Monday, August 10. The total amount of the loan is $1.5 bln. The 
second instalment of $500 mln will be offered before the end of the year. Russia 
will receive the third tranche of $700 mln in 1999. The disbursement of the 
second and third instalments will depend on progress in implementation of the 
structural reforms in Russia. 
  
	GOVERNMENT SECURITIES MARKET  

On August 3, yield on GKOs with long maturities increased to 74-75% from 69%. On 
Tuesday, on GKO yields fell to 71.5% and on Wednesday they grew again to 78%. On 
Thursday, the yields on GKOs with long maturities were around 80% and by the end 
of the week they increased to 90-95%. 
  
	COMPANIES  

 Oil & gas  

The Russian government intends to sell a 5% stake in Gazprom through a tender 
that will take place in August or September 1998. Foreign companies will be 
allowed to participate in the tender. The government will increase the limit of 
foreign ownership in Gazprom from 9% to 14%. The funds received from the tender 
will be used to pay pensions as well as wages to the state sector workers. 

Russia’s regional tax inspections started seizing assets and accounts of ONAKO, 
Eastern Oil Company and Sidanko. Export cuts were imposed on ONAKO and Sidanko. 
Boris Fedorov, the chairman of Russia’s State Tax Service, said that it could be 
beneficial for Sidanko to sell its stake in Angarsk Petrochemical Plant. 

Rosneft and Sakhalinmorneftegaz have signed an agreement with American Mobil and 
Texaco on joint development of Ayashsk field of Sakhalin offshore territory 
within the frameworks of Sakhalin-3 project. The Russian side will receive a 
33.3% share in the project divided equally between the two companies. 

 Energy  

The arbitration court of Primorsk territory decided to initiate a bankruptcy 
procedure for Dalenergo. 

Russia’s UES plans to issue Eurobonds in mid-November 1998. 

A tender for a 1.65% equity stake in Lenenergo will be held on September 30, 
1998. The total nominal value of the shares to be sold is R14 mln. 
  
