 
  
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  
  
On August 7, Russia’s foreign exchange and gold reserves totalled $17 billion, 
down $1.4 billion from July 31.  

On August 12, in an effort to cut demand for US dollars, Russia’s Central Bank 
decreased its limits for purchases of foreign currency for commercial banks by 
30% to 70%.  

On August 8, Boris Yeltsin signed a decree “On selling of state-owned shares of 
several joint-stock companies of the oil and gas industry”. The companies 
covered by the decree include Eastern Oil Company, Sibur, TNK, KomiTEK, Norsi-
Oil, Vostsibneftegas.  

According to Russia’s Finance Minister Mikhail Zadornov, $1 billion from the 
first tranche of the IMF’s aid package will be used to service the government 
debt. Earlier it was planned to use the whole amount of the first tranche to 
replenish reserves of Russia’s Central Bank.  

Fitch IBCA cut ratings of 10 Russian banks including Inkombank, Menatep, 
National Reserve Bank, Alfa-Bank, MDM Bank, Dialogbank, Mosbiznesbank, 
Rosestbank, Mezhkombank. The rating agency cited worsening of assets quality and 
liquidity as well as the banks’ limited capital as the reasons for the decision. 
The rating downgrade came as a consequence of the continuing crisis in Russia’s 
financial markets and remaining threat of rouble devaluation.  

Moody’s Investors Service has cut the ceiling of Russian sovereign credit rating 
for foreign currency-denominated bonds from B2 to B1. The ceiling of bank 
deposits in foreign currency and the rating of rouble-denominated bonds were cut 
from B2 to Caa1. The agency has also cut the ceiling of credit ratings of 
foreign currency-denominated bonds of LUKoil, Tatneft and MGTS. Moody's 
Investors Service has cut the ceiling of ratings of foreign currency-denominated 
bonds of several Russian territories including Komi republic, Krasnoyarsk 
territory, Moscow region, Moscow City, Nizhny Novgorod region, Samara region, 
Tatarstan republic, Sverdlovsk region, Yamalo-Nenetsky AO from B1 to B2. The 
credit ratings of 11 Russian banks were also reduced.  

Standard & Poor's has cut long-term currency ratings of the following Russian 
regions from B+ to B-: Sverdlovsk region, Yamalo-Nenetsky AO, Tatarstan 
republic, Irkutsk region, Samara region, Moscow, Nizhny Novgorod region, St. 
Petersburg. The outlook of the ratings was changed from stable to negative. 
Standard & Poor’s has cut long-term borrowing rating of the Russian Federation 
from B+ to B- and short-term borrowing rating from B to C. The agency has also 
cut ratings of companies including Alrosa, Rostelecom, MGTS, LUKoil, Mosenergo, 
Irkutskenergo, Tatneft, and Vympelcom from B+ to B- and changed their ratings’ 
outlook from stable to negative. Standard & Poor’s has also reduced long-term 
foreign currency borrowing ratings of several regions of the Russian Federation 
from B+ to B-. Ratings of three financial companies including LukInter Finance 
B.V., Mosenergo Finance B.V. and Tatneft Finance PLC were also cut from B+ to B- 
with outlook changed from stable to negative.  

On August 11, Brent oil price fell to $11.9 per barrel, the lowest price for the 
period of last ten years.  

Financier George Soros called for a 15% to 25% devaluation of the rouble. A 
currency board would fix the rouble exchange rate to the dollar or euro by at 
least matching notes and coins in circulation with hard currency reserves. 
Russia’s Central Bank said that the Soros’ plan would not solve the crisis but 
would create opportunities for speculation.  
	GOVERNMENT SECURITIES MARKET  
  
On Monday, yield on GKOs with long maturities increased from 90-95% to 110-114%. 
Yield on GKOs with short maturities was about 50%. On August 11, yield on GKOs 
with long maturieis increased to 150%. By the end of the week, yields on GKOs 
with all maturities were about 150-170%. During the week, trading volumes in the 
domestic government debt market were low and bid-offer spreads were high. On 
August 12, there was no bond placement auction because of the high yields in the 
market.  

According to Victor Khristenko, First Deputy Prime Minister, the government will 
not borrow in the Eurobond market at the current yields of about 30%.  

By the end of the year, the Russian government will need to pay back internal 
debt of about R132 billion (about $21 billion). Payments due by the end of 
August exceed R12 billion. External debt servicing costs in August will total 
$600-700 million.  
  
	COMPANIES  
   
Oil & gas  

Sergey Chizhov, first deputy fuel and energy minister, was appointed Rosneft’s 
chairman of board of directors.  

From the beginning of 1998, Sidanko managed to cut oil production cost by 40% to 
$4.9 per barrel. It is planned to further reduce the cost to about $4 per barrel 
of oil.  

Russia’s State Anti-Trust Committee has permitted Sibneft to purchase 100% 
shares of its upstream subsidiary Noyabrskneftegas. Sibneft currently owns a 
77.8% stake in Noyabrskneftegas.  

Russia’s Minister of State Property plans to sell a 0.873% stake in Gazprom 
through a special auction. Only Russian investors will be allowed to 
participate.  

According to preliminary reports, the starting price of the 5% stake in Gazprom 
will be $1.65 billion.  

 
