 

   
   
	ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL NEWS  
   
On August 17, Russia’s government declared some points of a new money and budget 
policy:  
    * The rouble was allowed to float within the bounds of a new corridor 
expanded to 6.00/9.50 to the dollar from 5.27/7.13 previously. 
On August 14 Russia’s foreign exchange and gold reserves totalled $15.1 bln, 
down from $17.0 bln on August 7.  

Sergey Kirienko said that the Russia’s foreign exchange and gold reserves 
guarantees a possibility to retain the rouble in the bounds.  
  
		On August 18 Russia’s Central Bank announced setting a 15% limit on 
the spreads between buy and sell rates set by exchange points.  

Russia’s Central Bank intends to insure private savings, it will guarantee 
accounts to 100 percent of their value. Commercial banks must sign agreements 
with Sberbank to allow their customers to transfer those accounts to bank they 
wish to.
 12 Russian banks created a payment pool to conduct regular calculation through 
mutual guarantees and maintenance of interests of private depositors. These 
banks are Alfa-bank, Rossiiskiy credit, Inkombank, Vnesheconombank, 
Vneshtorgbank, Sberbank, MOST-bank, Menatep, SBS-Agro, UNEXIMbank, MFK and NRB.  
    * Government GKO and OFZ securities maturing before December 31, 1998, will 
be replaced by new securities.  
GKO-OFZ trading has been suspended until the replacement.  

On August 19, Russian government made decision to repay all GKOs and OFZ 
maturing before December 31, 1998, on its par value. Final terms of the 
repayment of government securities will be announced on Monday, August 24.  

By the end of 1999, Russia’s government will save R200 to 250 bln on 
restructuring of internal debt.  

Warburg Dillon Read, a subdivision of UBS AG, will advise Russian government in 
financial matters.  
    * On August 17, a 90-days moratorium was declared on some foreign debt 
servicing. 
$4 bln are under this moratorium.  

On July 1, 1998, the whole debt of Russian commercial banks to foreigners was 
$19.2 bln  
    * On August 17, Russia declared a ban on non-residents investing in rouble 
assets with maturities of less than a year. 
All the international rating agencies have cut its long-term credit ratings of 
Russian Federation (Standard & Poor's – to CCC, Fitch IBCA – to B-, Moody's 
Investors Service – to Caa1), its regions, the largest banks and issuers.  

The announced measures have become a reason of government rearrangements:  

Boris Yeltsin has signed a decree resign Alexander Livshits, deputy of President 
Administration head.  

Boris Fedorov, a head of Russia’s State Tax Service, was appointed as deputy of 
Russian government’s chairman. In accordance with President Yeltsin’s decree, 
Boris Fedorov will supervise macroeconomic development and management of state 
debt.  

On August 16, Sergey Kirienko, Russia’s premier-minister, said that he is ready 
to tender his resignation, feeling his responsibility for the current situation. 
On August 17, Russia’s Central Bank chairman said that he is also ready to leave 
its post. Boris Yeltsin was disagree to both of the offers and obliged them to 
continue working.  
   
	COMPANIES  
 Oil & gas  

The tender on a 5%-stake in Gasprom, that was planned to be held in September, 
is postponed.  

Elf Aquitaine, a French oil company, has suspended conducting negotiations but 
has not refused to final purchase of a 12%-stake in Sibneft because of unstable 
situation in Russia and abroad as well as a decrease in oil prices.  

 Energy  Oil & gas   

 
 Other Companies  

 Angarskaya Oil Chemical Company’s creditors will be analysed until September 4 
and in the final analysis will be considered a possibility of starting speeded 
up bankruptcy procedure.  

A 13% stake of Energy, rocket space corporation, would be sold in tender with 
investment terms. The money from the investment program will be used to finance 
Mir station lowering from the orbit as well as participation in international 
Alfa project. Nowadays, 36% of the shares is in state property.  

In October or November, Babaevskii confectionery intends to place its securities 
on foreign markets. It is planned that it would be a mixed placement of short 
and long-term promissory notes and company’s shares. It is expected to receive 
$30-40 mln through the placement. A part of the money will be used to cover 
current expenditures and largest part – to realise production development 
program.  

RFFI has appointed a tender on a 6.5%-stake in Sayanskii Aluminium Plant (SaAZ). 
A starting price of the stake is R50 mln.  
  
		On August 19, trades at Moscow Stock Exchange were temporary stopped 
because of price fell on Gazprom shares to the minimum point, R1.16, and lack of 
demand. When the trades have been restarted,   

MSE announced new minimum limit – R1.13. On August 20 MSE’s trade was temporary 
stopped again.
 MICEX has discontinued operations on derivatives market because of the 
government and Central Bank announcement about limits on currency derivatives 
market and discontinuation of the trades on GKO and OFZ.  
  
		The RTS Index decreased by 29% on the week. The trading volume for 
the week totalled $39 mln.  

On August 19, RTS trade was discontinued because of index fell.  

The last issue of the weekly review and the archive of back issues can be 
accessed at our WWW site: www.corbina.ru/~profit.
   
		Calendar  
 
   
