BANCRUPTCY PROCEDURES IN THE CONDITIONS 
OF FINANCIAL CRISIS
The role of bankruptcy as a pressure device on corporate managers in the market 
economy is well known and has a lot of references (both positive and negative) 
in many publications. The bankruptcy threat to the corporation in the case its 
managers pursue a wrong policy in the market (and the most severe variant of 
creditors taking over control over enterprises) usually is regarded as a crucial 
external instrument of corporate governance. An obvious envisaged result of 
application of such a mechanism 
(regardless of pluses and minuses of specific country models- pro- creditor or 
pro- debtor ones) must be bettering the financial position and enhancement of 
performance of the corporation subject to the respective procedures.
At the same time everybody is also aware of those specific objective constraints 
for an efficient and mass application of the mechanism (with respect to this 
country) which exist in the conditions of transitional economy:
- an unfavorable financial state of a significant number of newly established 
corporations;
-traditions of soft budgetary constraints;
- maintenance of a significant number of corporations partly owned by the 
government;
- need in adequate and qualified executive and judicial infrastructure;
- socio- political barriers to application of real bankruptcy procedures to 
unprofitable corporations, especially in the case of the largest or principal 
for their cities ones;
- numerous technical problems related to an objective estimation of potential 
bankrupts' financial position;
- corruption and other criminal aspects of the problem, including those related 
to property redistribution processes;
- highly selective method of permanent pressure and threat( both political and 
economic) on the part of the state which was used to a minimal extent.
The dynamics of the respective trials between 1993- 1997, when the Law "On 
insolvency (bankruptcy) of enterprises" (enacted by the Supreme Council of RFSR 
on November 19, 1992, effective since March 1, 1993) was applied, was very 
insignificant.( According to the data of the Single State Register of 
enterprises and institutions of all forms of property, as of January 1, 1999, 
the number of registered economic agents ( affiliated structures and separated 
subdivisions inclusive) was in 1998 a. 2.7 mln., including over 1.6 mln. joint 
stock companies and partnerships.) In all, between 1993 to March 1, 1998 
arbitration courts held over 4.5 thous. trials. As of March 1, 1998 there were 
2,900 respective trials in the court.
Table 1
Dynamics of bankruptcy trials in Russia, 1993- 1998
 199319941995199619971998
            Number of trials 100240110826185810*12 781*
            Bankruptcy verdicts 50--10352600 **4747**
    
* Claims submitted to the arbitration court
** In 1997 external management was introduced by 850 cases. According to the 
data as of early November 198, arbitration courts appointed over 3,000 external 
managers.
Sources: Federal Securities Commission, Comments to the RF Law "On Insolvency
(bankruptcy", Moscow. 1998; Finansovye Izvestia, 1999, March 2, P. II.
The new Law "On insolvency ( bankruptcy) # 6- FZ of January 8, 1998 became 
effective since March 1, 1998. Not trying to evaluate innovations and contents 
herein, we would like to emphasize that undoubtedly the new Law is better 
elaborated and more progressive when compared with the previous one.
Between March to June 1998 800 claims were submitted to the court ( 80 were 
rejected). By early November 1998, the number of claims grew 10 times ( 8,000), 
and the arbitration courts appointed over 3,000 external managers. On the whole, 
according to the Federal Service for Insolvency Affairs (FSIM), in 1998 there 
were 12,781 claims to recognize debtors as bankrupts, including 4,573 cases.on 
recognition of industrial enterprises bankrupt (including 1,462 enterprises- 
supervision, 4720 external management, 2,006 production tenders, 80 amicable 
settlements between creditors and managers).
In our view, the problem is that first, all the political and socio- economic 
constraints for a large- scale application of the Law are still in place ( and 
become increasingly actual after the 1998 crisis). According to the data of 
Goskomstat, 55.2% of medium- and large- size Russian enterprises were 
unprofitable in 1998.
The enterprises' specific status raises specific problems. That can be 
attributed first of all to the Russia MIC: according to the data of the RF 
Ministry of Economy, of 1,500 enterprises in the sector (41% of which are state- 
owned, 33%- joint- stock companies with the government share, 25% joint- stock 
companies without government's participation) a. 400 are bankrupts de- facto. 
Between 1996- 1998, the government's indebtedness for accomplishing the defense 
commission grew 6 times. In many cases privatization is prohibited, while 
bankruptcy is impossible or directly prohibited due to a whole range of social, 
political and strategic reasons. Hence, the sector faces an institutional 
crisis, and the current owner is clearly insolvent, while any owner change is 
impossible.
Secondly, in the conditions of a high corruption and ongoing property 
redistribution , the decision making scheme and the respective options are 
available as manipulation and pressure instruments, to favor different 
participants in the process (though of course that is not the problem of quality 
of the Law). Those are first of all the matters of appointment of different 
types of external arbitration managers and objective criteria of selecting 
options: liquidation or rehabilitation.
In this respect, a notable simplification of the procedure of initiation of 
bankruptcy ( with the legal entity's debt amounted to 500 minimal wages rate) 
also means a notable simplification of launching the scheme of property 
withdrawal. It is well known from the Russian practice that an appointment of 
"somebody's" arbitration manager (temporary, external or through tender 
procedure) almost guaranties resolution of that "somebody's" problems, whether 
it is protection or aggression.
Thirdly, while compared with the total number of the Russian enterprises and 
that of companies - debtors, the figures on the growth in the number of claims 
seem rather alarming than impressive. Apparently the overwhelming majority of 
private creditors are in favor of rather traditional "private enforcement".than 
legal schemes of the new Law. 
A sharp shift in the structure of initiators of submitted claims is a indirect 
proof to that. By early November 1999, 94% of claims were submitted by non- 
government economic agents, and only 6%- by the state. By general results of 
1998 one notes a different picture: the state ( tax offices) has become the 
largest initiator of such cases ( 30.6% of the overall number of such claims 
forwarded to the court). The bankruptcy institution so far has not remained a 
generally accepted, universal system, but that to a higher degree is an 
instrument of a selective pressure upon debtors, often subject to political 
interests and preferences of the federal and regional authorities.
Fourth, the problem of legal and practical protection of rights and interests of 
all types of shareholders within the framework of the bankruptcy procedure is 
still unresolved. Thus, in particular, the danger of a compulsory bankruptcy of 
many large corporations - debtors to the federal budget in 1998 became one of 
the factors of a rapid outflow of portfolio investors form the national 
corporate securities market.
Hence, in the meantime one is unlikely to regard the Russian bankruptcy 
institution as a stable and efficient mechanism of corporate governance aimed at 
improving the state of the company's management and finance. The a.m. growth in 
number of claims apparently means rather probing new schemes of privatization of 
property, protection of managers from hostile absorption, or on the contrary, 
capture of attractive objects 
(assets) than creditors' growing enthusiasm caused by new legal prospects. It is 
not accidental perhaps that this process coincides with a general activation of 
property redistribution process in the conditions of the 1998 crisis.
Although the Law opens certain positive prospects for perfecting the respective 
sphere, a new destabilizing element may be introduced in 1999 by insufficiently 
elaborated legal and organizational decisions. Thus between late 1998 to 1999, 
the State Duma attempted to introduce a moratorium on the effect of the Law as a 
whole, leaving effective only the Law on execution of enforcement procedures 
(i.e. the possibility of arrest of the liquid assets without. Takinhg a recourse 
upon capital assets). In 1999 the Duma proceeds with considering amendments to 
the current Law: the essence of those is to extend the term of acceptable debt 
(from 3 to 6 months) and to increase significantly the amount of the debt needed 
to initiate the bankruptcy procedure (the amount of liabilities must exceed the 
sum of extra- liquid and liquid assets). By its effect, adoption of such 
amendments is equal to moratorium.
At the same time between 1998- 1999 the government considered prospects of 
transforming the RF Ministry for State Property, Russian Fund for Federal 
Property and Federal Service for Insolvency Affairs into a single body. It is 
extremely doubtful that such a measure would assist to enhancing the efficiency 
of managing the government property, activate the privatization process and 
improve enterprises' positions through bankruptcy procedure.
A. Radygin
Top
 
