These rapids don't end with a waterfall
The IMF decision to grant Russia its long-awaited loan has helped the debt 
securities market to rally, but has had no positive effect on the Russian share 
market. Expectations of the positive decision by the IMF have long been 
reflected in share prices. 
Now that Russia can repay its IMF debt, receive World Bank loans, and seek an 
agreement with clubs of creditors, it is clearly in better shape for growth. But 
the effect will not be immediate, either for the economy or for the stock 
market. Speculators are more excited, seeing opportunities in the set of 
problems inherited by the Stepashin government in the early summer - problems 
that have become urgent by the end of July. But that has nothing to do with 
recognition of Russia as a market economy by the international community, which 
is what fulfillment of the IMF and World Bank conditions could hopefully lead 
to. 
The political situation inside the country is complicated. First and foremost 
the Kremlin will have to make up its mind before August 19 whether Sergei 
Stepashin is good enough as a premier for the roller-coaster period of Duma 
election campaigning, or whether it would be better to appoint a new head of 
government, whose loyalty would secure the ruling group a victory. Secondly, the 
Kremlin's opponents have less than a month left to decide whether to merge or 
fight their many corners separately in the run up to December. And it looks as 
if politicians opposed to the Kremlin are not having much success in getting 
together. Thirdly, the end of July has been marked by a real explosion of social 
tension caused by new problems in Chechnya, the fuel crisis all over the 
country, a general surge of terrorism and vandalism, natural disasters and 
epidemics in Southern Russia. 
The economic recovery set off by the weak ruble and nurtured by a strong Central 
Bank is overshadowed by new growth of inflation, which we estimate may be as 
high as 60% annual. Ever-growing domestic fuel prices (by 3.3% a week in July) 
are pushing prices of other consumer goods upwards - by 0.8-0.9% a week. The 
premier's decision not to raise oil export duties makes one expect higher 
inflation in August, while growth of money supply, exceeding inflation by 5 - 
6%, makes the ruble even weaker. Federal budget spending grew in July due to 
unplanned costs needed to maintain Russian troops in Kosovo, huge amounts of 
money spent by the Emergency Ministry fighting natural disasters, and problems 
in Chechnya. Banks are collecting considerable ruble assets on their accounts, 
partly due to recent stabilization loans, dished out by the Central Bank. Tax 
payments have also started to accumulate on accounts. During the past 7 days, 
the Central Bank has had much difficulty in maintaining the ruble rate, and gold 
and currency reserves declined by $500 million from 22 to 29 July to stand at 
$11 billion. 
As can be seen, the government will have hard time of it in the next 6 weeks, 
though for different reasons from late summer last year. In 1998, the IMF 
decided to help Russia on July 20, and we all remember what happened a month 
later. The situation as Russia gets its IMF help in 1999 is tough, but not 
critical, and we are not superstitious about dates. 
The IMF renews loans to Russia. What does it mean?
The renewed IMF program of loans for Russia extends over a period of one and a 
half years, with the total IMF loan amounting to approximately $4.5 billion. The 
IMF plans to pay out the money in tranches of $640 million, with three of the 
tranches coming before the end of 1999 and four in 2000. The first tranche will 
be transferred as early as Friday, July 29. Both sides have agreed that the 
money will not be sent to Moscow, but will be placed on Russia's account within 
the Fund to be subsequently used as repayment of Russian debts to the IMF. This 
calendar year Russia has to repay $1.48 billion, not including a payment of 
$1.92 billion. which the IMF has agreed to reschedule. 
The negotiations on restructuring of the Russian IMF debt and renewal of loan 
programs by the IMF have been long and arduous. As late as the day before the 
IMF Board of Directors was to hold its decisive meeting, the Russian envoy 
responsible for relations with international financial institutes, Mikhail 
Zadornov, was obliged to answer some unpleasant questions from the Fund's 
experts regarding non-compliance by Russia with its commitments to restructure 
the banking system. The Russian Premier, however, seems to have smoothed out 
difficulties during his US visit, and the IMF Board voted in Russia's favor. 
Exactly what benefits has Russia extracted from the IMF? 
* The seven tranches will amount to approximately to $4.5 billion. The amount is 
approximate because the loan is calculated in Special Drawing Rights, the 
"synthetic" IMF currency with a fluid exchange rate. 
* If everything goes well and Russia is able to meet the terms of the agreement 
with the IMF, it will receive $1.92 billion before the end of the year. This 
money will be transferred from one IMF account to another. The Russian 
government will have no control over this money. 
Such an optimistic scenario of events would involve not only strict adherence to 
the "Memorandum on economic policies", submitted to the IMF by the Russian 
government and the Central Bank, but also some significant political concessions 
by Russia. It is important to note that the actual talks between Gore and 
Stepashin were reported not to have involved discussions of the MF loans, but 
rather to have focused on the Balkans, control over space weapons and Russia's 
policies in the East. We do not lend much credence to speculations about non-
compliance by the Russian government with commitments made to the IMF due to 
domestic pressure in the election year. The most unpopular decisions have 
already been made, and the agreements are certain to be carried out. 
* The IMF personifies for Russia a strict financial controller, which has 
already caught government and the Central Bank with their hands in the till one 
time in the past. Last spring the IMF made public some financial manipulations 
and dishonest acts perpetrated by some Russian finance officials in regard to 
information disclosure. On July 28, as the airplane of the Russian premier was 
taking off for Moscow, the IMF management publicly accused the former Russian 
authorities of falsification committed in "former times". This was intended to 
show that in the "present times" the IMF will be keeping use of its money by 
Russia under close scrutiny. This, of course, must be humiliating for the 
authorities but quite acceptable for investors. 
* The new loan will allow Russia to refinance around 10% of its total payments 
to the IMF. In the current year, however ... 
* The agreement with the IMF will allow Russia to increase foreign borrowings. 
These are in the first place Japanese and World Bank loans. The Russian 
government has been given a chance, but it will have to conduct long and arduous 
negotiations about the terms of the new loans. Besides, the loans will be 
expensive. Top Russian economic officials are divided, with some being in favor 
and some against further foreign loans. It is hard to tell what their joint 
action will lead to. But it is most likely that the needs of the coming election 
will tip the balance, and Russia will do all it needs to obtain loans from the 
World Bank and Japan. 
* Given that loans are given for certain programs, which are agreed upon during 
negotiations, and subsequently require adherence to certain obligations by the 
borrower, Russia is becoming more predictable as regards its economic policies 
for a long time to come. This means that Russian governments, present and 
future, will tend to be deprived of the chance to conduct truly independent 
economic policies. The Stepashin government had to accept that, but the 
government that will come into office in a year's time may spring some surprises 
on us. 
* The Paris Club of creditors is now not only prepared to discuss a rescheduling 
of Russian payments of $16 billlion, due in this and next year, but even to 
review the nominal value of the debt. The Russian finance minister Mikhail 
Kasyanov was invited to Paris immediately after the IMF decision had been 
announced. No one believes that the debt to the Paris Club, which includes 19 
creditor countries, will be restructured fully and promptly. But past 
precedents, when considerable amounts of Polish and Egyptian debt to the Paris 
Club, were written off, may provide Russia with some additional arguments in the 
negotiations. A two-year grace period is quite likely, and would greatly improve 
chances of Russian economic growth. 
* As early as a month ago, Russia announced that it had been granted delay in 
payment of $746 million, overdue to the London Club. This is not quite true. On 
August 3 in Moscow, the Russians will be have a very tough meeting with the 
London Club members, most of them now being hedge funds which bought out 
Russia's debt for a song during the last Fall and Spring. They are not 
interested in political details, they are absolutely independent and aggressive 
creditors. The creditor banks have been put at a slight disadvantage by the fact 
that PRIN and IAN instruments (of which the London Club debt consists) are 
Vneshekonombank obligations, i.e. they cannot quite legitimately be defined as a 
state debt. Consequently, action that may be initiated by the London Club does 
not constitute any particular danger for Russian assets abroad.
It is certain, at least, that agreements with the IMF, World Bank and possibly a 
preliminary agreement with the Paris Club, will be of considerable help in 
dealing with the London Club. 
NGTS and Novosibirsk Electrosvyaz to merge
Russia's telecom holding company Svyazinvest, which owns majority stakes in all 
regional telecoms, announced in June 1999 that it plans to initiate a merger 
between Novosibirsk City Phone Company (NGTS) and Novosibirsk Electrosvyaz. The 
completion of the deal is scheduled for August 2000. There has been a 
preliminary announcement that two companies will merge into one new consolidated 
telecom (we will provisionally call it Novosibirsk Telecom or NT). 
We believe that over the long term, the move should benefit shareholders of both 
companies. However, due to its stronger position in the region, Novosibirsk 
Electrosvyaz shareholders stand to gain the most from the merger. Electrosvyaz 
currently trades at a bigger discount to the sector average compared to NGTS and 
offers substantial appreciation potential. 
Company overview
NGTS is a phone company that provides local telephone service to the city of 
Novosibirsk with population of 1.5 million. Its main weakness is the absence of 
long-distance service, although NGTS has ambitious plans for expanding its 
service to include long-distance calls by building its own international 
exchange. However, we consider such plans unrealistic, given the company's poor 
financial condition and lack of investment resources. The company has been 
upgrading its network and replacing old exchanges by new digital switches. As a 
result, 30% of the network is now digital, compared with 23% prior to the 
upgrade. NGTS expects that 54% of its network will be digitized before the end 
of 1999. NGTS also plans to introduce per-minute billing for local phone calls 
in 2000. NGTS borrowed about $9.5 million to finance its modernization program, 
which negatively affected the company's financial performance in 1998. 
Novosibirsk Electrosvyaz operations are more diversified as it provides local 
telephone service to the Novosibirsk region with population of 1.4 million and 
long-distance service (both international and domestic) to the whole region 
including the city. Novosibirsk's long distance exchange, telegraph and radio 
station belong to Electrosvyaz. Some 74% of the company's revenue comes from 
long-distance service. Electrosvyaz is even capable of controlling NGTS 
operations through its representatives in NGTS management. The main drawback of 
Elektrosvyaz is the mainly rural client base of its fixed network. The average 
income of Electrosvyaz customers is low and they are scattered over a large 
territory, which restricts efficient extension of the network. Access lines 
increase by only 2.5-3% annually. 
Region overview
The city of Novosibirsk has very good long-term economic growth prospects. 
Novosibirsk is the transportation and business hub of Western Siberia and has a 
strong tradition in scientific research. The region is not heavily 
industrialized, but has a large and extending residential base. Novosibirsk is 
located on the Moscow - Khabarovsk radio relay line, which means the company has 
good exposure to long-distance call traffic. 
The region's current penetration rate is 22%, which is slightly higher than the 
Russian average of 19%, but much lower than the world standard of 60%. Low 
penetration offers high growth potential for the new regional phone company in 
terms of increasing fixed-line network and customer base. The fixed-line network 
in Novosibirsk region is digitized by 25%, which is higher than the national 
average of 19%, and that should increase to 41% by the end of 1999. 
Impact of the merger on operating performance
The proposed consolidation will benefit both companies. NGTS will get long-
distance revenue without making substantial investments. In turn, Novosibirsk 
Electrosvyaz will get access to the urban clientele of NGTS and upgraded 
exchange equipment. The combination will also result in substantial savings and 
economies of scale. The merger will eliminate inefficient competition between 
the two telecoms, which should eventually result in lower operating expenses. 
The new telecom company will rank 11th among Russia's telecoms in terms of 
access lines and provide service to one of the largest of Russia's regions, with 
population of 2.9 million. The new company will be better than its predecessors 
in terms of quality and diversification of services, growth potential and stock 
liquidity. The two companies will also benefit from consolidating their 
interests in a number of local value-added telecommunication providers (two 
cellular providers, NGTS-page, and others). To summarize, Novosibirsk Telecom 
will become a monopoly provider of local and long-distance phone services to a 
market of 2.9 million customers, with competitive position in the local cellular 
market. The new company will be comparable to other large Russian regional 
telecoms, which should eventually result in higher valuation multiples. 
Valuation
Although currently both companies trade at large discounts to other telecoms in 
terms of 98 P/E (64% for NGTS and 80% for Electrosvyaz), we believe that the new 
company should be valued in line with other major regional telecoms. In our 
opinion, the market capitalization of the new entity will be higher then the 
value of its parts due to numerous operational synergies, economies of scale and 
improved financial performance. Also, shares of the new company should enjoy 
better liquidity due to the increase in size. 
Both NGTS and Electrosvyaz offer significant upside potential. However, 
Electrosvyaz is our preferred instrument in this transaction as it is very 
likely to get a larger equity stake in the new company. 
