General Economic Trends
 
Recovery trends which manifested themselves in the production of 
goods and services in the previous period of the year grew stronger 
last May. Inflation rates continued to slow down and the ruble 
received a tangible boost.
Such factors as demand for certain domestically manufactured items 
of output in the internal and external markets and improvements in 
the financial state of enterprises, in addition to favourable 
macroeconomic conditions, contributed to positive dynamics in the 
economy's real sector.
Changes for the better in the financial state of enterprises 
facilitated the expansion of their possibilities to attract funds to 
finance investment in fixed assets in the form of bank loans and 
borrowings from other institutions: the share of attracted funds in 
the sources of financing available to large and middle-sized 
enterprises grew from 37.1% in the 1st quarter last year to 40.3% in 
the same period this year. This was accompanied by changes in the 
structure of investment - the proportion of machinery and equipment 
increased, and this, in turn, can eventually have a positive impact 
on the level of the provision of production with modern machinery 
and appliances and enhance the competitiveness of domestic products.
Last May investments in fixed assets were 1.8% smaller than in the 
same month last year. In January-May, 1999, such investments were 
equivalent to 98% of the January-May, 1998, level. It is evidence of 
a stable trend towards the slowing of recession in the investment 
sphere, compared with the corresponding period last year.
An unfavorable situation in the world raw materials markets and the 
growing costs of imports for Russian economic agents remained the 
main factors which predetermined the slackening of foreign trade 
activity in the first four months of this year. At the same time, a 
substantial improvement of the situation in the market of energy 
resources, which occurred last March and April, led to the narrowing 
of the gap between the volumes of foreign trade turnover in 
January-April 1998 and in the same period this year.
According to official data by the Russian Statistics Agency, or 
Rosstatagentstvo, last April foreign trade declined by 28.5% (to add 
up to $35.1 billion) with exports falling by 10.3% (to constitute 
$22.1 billion) and imports by 46.9% ($13.0 billion).
A sharp reduction of exports to the CIS countries is the determining 
factor of negative influence on this year's export dynamics. In 
January-April 1999 exports to these countries decreased by 37.1%, or 
$2.2 billion, whereas exports to non-CIS countries fell by only 
1.8%, or $0.3 billion.
High profitability of export deals is conducive to the persistence 
of the trend towards the growth of the physical volume of deliveries 
to external markets, especially, the markets of non-CIS countries. 
With regard to commodities which make up about 70% of all exports, 
the physical volume index was 1.05 and the export price index - 
0.75.
The fast reduction of imports ensures positive dynamics in the 
balance of trade: the January-April balance of trade had a surplus 
of $9.1 billion, compared with $0.2 billion during the same period 
of last year. Last June the average ruble/US dollar exchange rate 
fell 17.3% on the December 1998 level, with the ruble gaining 6.2% 
in the first half of the year. The real exchange rate of the ruble 
against the US dollar rose by 2.8% in June, compared with May.
 
Inflation
Last June's inflation was at the level of 1.9%, compared with 2.2% 
in the previous month. It is evidence of the strengthening of the 
trend towards decreasing inflation rates, which has been observed 
since the beginning of the year and is reflected in consumer price 
dynamics. In January-June the prices of goods and services went up 
by 24.5%.
The rates of price growth in industry also slowed down last May and 
constituted 103.5%, compared to 103.6% in April. Producer prices 
went up by 25.4% in January-June. In May price growth rates in the 
industries working for final consumption (engineering, the light and 
food industries) for the first time this year were below the 
producer price index as a whole.
In the period under review the trend towards inflation slowing down 
was preconditioned by stable and predictable dynamics of the foreign 
exchange rate and lower inflation expectations, as a consequence of 
this. Furthermore, the role of changes in the foreign exchange rate 
was transformed in May-June: it is more likely that such changes 
ensure a lower level of inflation in the economy as a whole rather 
than determine any concrete shifts in the pace of consumer price 
growth.
Of great importance is a regular reduction of the growth rates of 
producer prices and, consequently, the easing of their pressure on 
consumer prices. The low level of consumer demand is another serious 
factor contributing to the reduction of inflation rates.
 
Real Sector
The current state of the economy's real sector is borne out by the 
index of output change for the five basic sectors (industry, 
agriculture, construction, transport and trade). The output dynamics 
for these industries confirm the development of recovery processes 
in the Russian economy. In January-May 1999 their index was 
equivalent to 98% of that in the corresponding period last year. Its 
positive dynamics last May (102.2%) were largely ensured by the 
vigorous development of industry and transport. Production rates in 
construction, agriculture and, especially, retail trade provoked the 
lowering of this index.
Last May industrial production was tangibly higher (6.1% higher) 
than in the same month last year. As a result, the trajectory of 
post-crisis recovery processes for the first time changed from a 
negative area to a positive one. By and large, industrial production 
increased by 1.5% in January-May, compared with the same period last 
year.
Despite the existing differences in the production dynamics of 
different industries, the majority of them were characterized by 
growth last May. The positive dynamics of the export-oriented 
industries was to a considerable degree connected with the growth of 
deliveries to the external market, which was caused by the price 
advantages of domestic products. Thus, quotas were enlarged for 
practically all the export items of production this year. The 
highest growth was recorded in the export of non-ferrous metals, 
timber and pulp-and-paper, chemical and petrochemical industry 
products, despite constant demand for these products on the domestic 
market. As a result, export-oriented industries increase output on a 
stable basis. Thus, output growth was 8% in non-ferrous metallurgy, 
19% in the chemical and petrochemical industry, 14.3% in the timber 
and pulp-and-paper industry and 4.2% in the fuel industry last May, 
compared with May 1998.
Positive shifts in re-orienting consumer demand to the domestic 
producer continued last May. The domestic market expanded as a 
result of growing demand for some oil products, building materials, 
mineral fertilizers, lorries and cars and light industry products. 
This led to production growth in the industries working for the 
domestic market. Thus, the output of engineering rose 12.8% and of 
the building materials industry 10.7% above the May 1998 level.
Food industry increment was 5.6% higher than in May 1998. However, 
production growth in this industry as a whole was largely achieved 
at the expense of its food additives sector. Positive changes also 
occurred in the light industry last May: compared with May 1998 
light industry production had risen 11.1% but it fell by 8.6% in the 
January-May period as a whole because of low production rates in the 
beginning of the year.
Growing production rates demonstrated by enterprises in the 
economy's real sector had a positive impact on the economic activity 
of transport. In January-May freight turnover exceeded the level of 
the same period last year by 2.6%, with rail freight turnover up by 
9.6%.
The trend towards the stabilization of economic activity in 
construction continued in May. Contractor works reduced by 3.5% in 
January-May, while housing construction grew by 4.7%.
Under the impact of seasonal factors, agricultural production 
increased last May, compared with April. Nonetheless, the figures 
for the main livestock sector products were below their April 1998 
level. As a result, overall agricultural production shrank by 4% in 
January-May 1999.
 
Finance
A stable foreign exchange market situation and sufficient banking 
system liquidity generated a growing interest of banks in government 
securities. In June, the average daily volume of secondary GKO-OFZ 
trading increased in June, while the yield fell. Following the 
redemption of the last outstanding GKO issue an OFZ issue with the 
shortest  maturity date of up to six months became the most liquid 
instrument on the government securities market with the highest 
trading turnovers.
A high offer of free funds remained on the inter-bank credit market, 
despite a certain reduction of balances on the banks' correspondent 
accounts at the end of the month which followed the introduction of 
higher reguired reserve ratios. This affected the costs of 
borrowings. The MIACR rate on "overnight" loans went up from 5%-8% 
p. a. in the beginning of June to 15%-18% in the beginning of July.
 
Household Incomes and Savings
The household cash incomes decreased both in nominal and  real terms 
last May, which is a typical development for this month of the year. 
The real decrease constituted 6.4%, compared with April.
The reduction of debts on payments to the population continues to 
exercise positive influence on real incomes dynamics. As of June 1, 
1999, the sum total of overdue wage arrears was 3.3% smaller than in 
May and 20.7% smaller than in the beginning of the year, with 
underfinancing out of budgets at all the levels decreasing by 4.7% 
and 27.3%, respectively.
However, the persisting high level of prices (compared with last 
year) negatively affects the real household incomes. Thus, in 
January-May of this year the real household disposable incomes were 
only 73.8% of their level in the same period last year.
A fall in cash incomes led to a change in the ratio between average 
per capita cash incomes and the subsistence wage. Last May, this 
ratio reduced by 13.7 percentage points, compared with the preceding 
month, and constituted 150%. Despite a growth achieved since with 
the beginning of the year, it remains considerably below last year's 
level (it was 191.6% in May 1998).
According to Rosstatagentstvo, the average imputed monthly pension 
was only 68.4% of the subsistence wage last May, that is, 62.3 
percentage points below the May 1998 level.
Although the real average imputed wage grew by 0.8% the same month, 
compared with April, it still constituted only 64.2% of the May 1998 
level.
So, the low standard of living remains an acute problem, and this 
has a negative effect on the formation of demand in the household 
sector.
The share of spending for goods and services in the structure of the 
use of household  cash incomes grew from 76.1% last April to 80.4% 
in May. The part of incomes used to buy foreign exchange and 
increment in the cash in hands also reduced last month, compared 
with the previous month.
