Summary methodology of the Bank of Russia's major macroeconomic and 
financial data 
   
        Contents
Main aggregates of analitical accounts of banking sector 
Main aggregates of analitical accounts of monetary authorities 
Interest rates of the Bank of Russia 
Money market rates 
Stock market 
Balance of payments 
International reserves 
Merchandise trade 
International investment position of credit institutions 
Official US Dollar to Ruble rate 
   
Main aggregates of analitical accounts of banking sector
M2 (monetary survey metodology)Cash issued by the CBR 
excluding cash available in the CBR's and credit 
institutions' cash offices, balances held by the Russian 
Federation residents (enterprises, organizations (exept 
for credit ones), self-employed individuals and 
households) on checking, current, deposit, and other 
demand accounts (including plastic cards payment 
accounts) opened with credit institutions in the Russian 
Federation currency, their time deposits in the Russian 
Federation currency and all deposits in foreign 
currency. 
   
Cash in circulation M0 (money outside banks)Cash issued 
by the CBR excluding cash available in the CBR's and 
credit institutions' cash offices.
   
Domestic creditTotality of the banking system's claims 
on government nonfinancial enterprises, private sector, 
including households, financial (except for credit ones) 
institutions and net credit to general government in the 
Russian Federation currency, in foreign currency, and 
precious metals.
   
Net credit to general government Banking sector's claims 
on general government over general government's 
deposits. 
Claims on general government include credits in domestic 
and foreign currency extended by banking sector to 
Minfin, fiscal authorities in the RF member - 
territories and to local authorities, to the government 
extrabudgetary funds of the Russian Federation and of 
the Russian Federation member - territories, securities 
issued by the Russian Federation Government, the RF 
member territories, and local authorities and held by 
CBR and credit institutions. 
General government's deposits - balances on accounts of 
the federal budget, the Russian Federation member - 
territories' budgets and local budgets, deposits and 
other funds contracted from Minfin, fiscal authorities 
in the Russian Federation member - territories and local 
authorities, government extrabudgetary funds and 
extrabudgetary funds of the Russian Federation member - 
territories and local authorities. Apart from these 
items, the indicator includes a balancing entry equaling 
a sum total of international reserves administered by 
Minfin.
   
Claims on nonfinancial public enterprises Credits 
(including debt outstanding), overdue interest on 
credits extended by banking sector to nonfinancial 
government enterprises in domestic and foreign currency.
   
Claims on private sector Credits (including outstanding 
debt), overdue interest on credits extended by banking 
sector to nonfinancial nongovernment enterprises, 
self-employed individuals and households, as well as 
Bank of Russia's and credit institutions' investments 
into securities issued by private enterprises.
   
Claims on other financial institutions Funds transferred 
to financial (except for credit ones) institutions 
regardless of their type of property and credits 
extended to said organizations.
   
Net foreign assets Balances of transactions in assets 
and liabilities made by monetary authorities and credit 
institutions with nonresidents.
Foreign assets — balances on Bank of Russia's and credit 
institutions' accounts recording transactions made with 
nonresidents in foreign currency, the Russian Federation 
currency and precious metals (balances on correspondent 
accounts; deposits and other funds placed in nonresident 
banks; credits extended to nonresident banks, 
nonresident legal entities and individuals, debt 
liabilities, and bill acquired from foreign governments, 
banks and other nonresidents, investments into foreign 
companies' and banks' shares of stock) as well as 
foreign currency cash in credit institutions’ vault.
Foreign liabilities — all types of borrowings by banking 
sector from nonresidents: balances on LORO accounts, 
credits contracted, deposits, and other funds 
denominated in foreign currency, in the Russian 
Federation currency, and precious metals as well as IMF 
loans extended to Minfin and the CBR. 
   

Main aggregates of analitical accounts of monetary authorities
Reserve money Cash issued by the CBR (excluding cash in 
its vaults), balances on required reserve accounts 
deposited by credit institutions with the CBR, on 
correspondent accounts, and other cash balances on 
accounts of credit institutions (including banks with 
revoked licenses) with the CBR, credit institutions 
deposits into the CBR bonds, as well as demand deposits 
of nonfinancial enterprises and organizations serviced 
in the CBR in compliance with the effective law.
   
Claims on general government Credits in domestic and 
foreign currency extended to Minfin, the RF government's 
securities bought by the CBR, except for securities 
transferred to the CBR by credit institutions on REPO 
terms. In compliance with international standards on 
analytical presentation of monetary authorities' 
statistics, this indicator includes the IMF loans to 
Minfin.
   
Claims on nonfinancial public enterprises Credits 
(including outstanding debt), overdue interest on 
credits extended to nonfinancial public enterprises.
   
Claims on private sector Credits (including outstanding 
debt), overdue interest on credits extended to 
nonfinancial nongovernment enterprises, self-employed 
individuals, and households as well as the Bank of 
Russia's deposits into securities of private 
enterprises.
   
Claims on credit institutions Credit institutions' 
arrears to the CBR (including loans extended to banks 
with revoked licenses and overdue interest on them) and 
funds extended to credit institutions on REPO terms.
   
Net foreign assetsBalances of transactions in assets and 
liabilities made by monetary authorities with 
nonresidents.
Foreign assets — the Russian Federation international 
reserves (see their content in comments to the "Gross 
International Reserves" table) and less liquid, 
nonreserve assets. Nonreserve assets in this table 
comprise all other Bank of Russia's assets placed with 
nonresidents, namely, assets denominated in currency 
with limited conversion potential and in the Russian 
Federation currency, and also long—term credits and 
deposits in convertible currency, and nonresident banks' 
equity interest.
Foreign liabilities include all types of borrowings by 
the CBR from nonresidents (credits, deposits, 
nonresident banks' correspondent accounts with the CBR, 
etc.) as well as IMF loans extended to Minfin and the 
CBR.
   

Interest rates of the Bank of Russia
Refinancing rate Monetary instrument by means of which 
the CBR affects interbank market rates, and rates on 
deposits of legal entities and individuals, and also 
rates on credits extended to them by credit 
institutions. Refinancing rate is one of the interest 
rates used by the CBR for extending credits to banks in 
the form of refinancing.
   
Deposit ratesInterest rates on resident credit 
institutions' funds attracted into the CBR's deposit 
accounts using Reuters Dealing System, on standard terms 
determined by the CBR Provisions ¹67-P dated 13.01.99.
  
Overnight rate (one day settlement credit)Interest rate 
for overnight secured credits extended by the CBR for 
banks for settlement purposes pursuant to the CBR 
Provisions ¹19-P dated 6.03.98.
   

Money market rates
Actual rate on one-day interbank creditsCalculated each 
day as average weighted by one-day credits provided by 
most significant participants in Moscow interbank 
market. No records are made of rates on credits extended 
by banks to its branches or on rollover credits. 
   

Stock market 
Share price index (RTS-Interfax index, 
5.01.98=100%)Computed ratio of the current total value 
of market capitalization of stocks enlisted for 
calculation to the total market capitalization of stocks 
in the base period. The index includes 100 stocks 
selected by their liquidity (bidding value, number of 
contracts, development of corporate stock market, 
issuer’s credit rating, etc), market value 
(capitalization), availability of information about an 
issuer, and a number of other criteria. The data on 
contracts selected for the corporate stock index are 
obtained from the Russian Trade System (RTS) and the 
Moscow Stock Exchange (MSE).
   

Balance of payments
Current account Includes transactions with goods, 
services, revenues and current transfers.
   
Exports/imports of goodsThis item reflects cost of goods 
whose proprietary rights within the reporting period 
were transferred from residents to nonresidents (export) 
and from nonresidents to residents (import). Apart from 
export and import of goods registered by the Russian 
Federation State Customs Committee (SCC), this item 
incorporates the following transactions on 
exports/imports unrecorded by the SCC, namely: 
exports/imports sold (purchased) without trafficking the 
customs border; migrants' exports/imports); undeclared 
and/or understated goods when trafficked into the 
country by legal entities; trafficked in (out) by 
individuals for merchanting; other goods.
Exports and imports are given in FOB prices (FOB is the 
term for selling goods which implies that the price of 
goods includes its cost as well as its freight and 
delivery costs on board the ship in the port of 
departure).
   
Exports/imports of servicesServices rendered by 
residents to nonresidents and by nonresidents to 
residents (freightage, travel-related services, 
communication services, construction and financial 
services, royalties and license payments, operational 
leasing, and other services).
   
Investment income and compensation of employees 
balanceReturns from providing production factors (labor, 
capital) to nonresidents by residents or vice versa.
The "Compensation of employees received” item shows 
remuneration to employees received by them from 
nonresidents and payments to nonresident employees 
engaged in the Russian economy.
The "Investment income" item records returns from 
holding foreign financial assets which residents receive 
from nonresidents (interest, dividends and other similar 
forms of income) or vice versa.
  
Direct investments Form of foreign investments which are 
made by a resident institutional unit of a country with 
a view of attaining sustainable influence on operations 
of the enterprise located in a different country. 
Sustainable influence implies the development of 
long-term relations between the investor and the said 
enterprise and also the investor's significance in 
managing this enterprise. Transactions recorded as 
direct investments include not only the initial 
transaction on attaining an equity share but also all 
further transactions between the investor and the given 
enterprise. Invested funds have the character of direct 
investments if the investor holds 10 or more percent of 
the enterprise's common shares of stock.
   
Portfolio investmentsAlong with the equity interest 
these investments also comprise debt financial 
instruments and financial derivatives. The said group 
does not comprise instruments already included into 
direct investments and reserve assets.
   
Other investmentsAll transactions which are not treated 
as transactions in direct and portfolio investments or 
in reserve assets are recorded in the "Other 
investments" item. Assets and liabilities in the "Other 
investments" item are subject to classification by 
financial instrument: foreign exchange cash and 
deposits; trade credits; grants and loans; outstanding 
debt; other assets and liabilities.
   
Reserve assets Monetary gold and liquid foreign assets 
of the CBR and the Russian Federation Finance Ministry 
denominated in freely convertible foreign currency. They 
include foreign currency cash, balances on correspondent 
and current accounts as well as on short-term deposits 
with nonresident and resident banks, liquid securities 
of foreign governments, IMF's assets (special drawing 
rights — SDRs, reserve position in the IMF), and other 
liquid assets.
   

International reserves
International reserves International reserves present 
highly liquid financial instruments hold by the CBR and 
the RF Finance Ministry and used for funding Russia's 
balance of payments' deficit as well as for maintaining 
confidence in the national currency. International 
reserves consist of foreign exchange reserves and 
monetary gold.
   

Merchandise trade
Export (based on the balance of payments 
methodology)Trafficking out of the Russian Federation 
customs territory of goods recorded by SCC in compliance 
with categories within the "general" foreign trade 
records framework, as well as export of commodities 
unrecorded by SCC, namely: marketed to nonresidents 
without crossing Russia's customs boarder; bought by 
foreign transport vehicles in Russian ports; trafficked 
out by emigrants; trafficked out of the country by 
individuals for merchanting; other goods.
   
Import (based on the balance of payments 
methodology)Trafficking into the Russian Federation 
customs territory of goods recorded by SCC in compliance 
with the categories within the "general" foreign trade 
records framework, as well as supply of goods unrecorded 
by SCC, namely: purchase from nonresidents without 
crossing Russia's customs boarder; goods bought by 
Russian transport vehicles in foreign ports; trafficked 
into the country by immigrants; undeclared and/or 
unreliably declared when trafficking by legal entities; 
trafficked by individuals for merchanting; other goods.
   

International investment position of credit institutions
AssetsForeign economic claims held by Russian residents 
credit institutions at the end of the reporting period. 
Credit institutions' assets include Direct investments, 
Portfolio investments and Other investments (foreign 
currency cash; current accounts and deposits; grants and 
loans; outstanding debt; other assets).
   
LiabilitiesForeign economic liabilities for which 
Russian residents credit institutions were liable at the 
end of the reporting period. Credit institutions' 
liabilities include Direct investments, Portfolio 
investments and Other investments (current accounts and 
deposits; grants and loans; outstanding debt; other 
liabilities).
   
Net international investment position of credit 
institutionsBalance of assets and liabilities of Russian 
residents credit institutions. Depending on whether the 
"Net International Investment Position" of credit 
institutions is positive or negative, it seems possible 
to attribute the sector under analysis to a "net 
creditor" or a "net debtor" with regard to nonresidents.
   

US Dollar to Ruble rate 
Official US dollar to ruble rateOfficial US dollar to 
ruble rate is set daily and enacted from the following 
calendar day. Till 16 August 1998 it was calculated as 
an arithmetic average of the US dollar purchase/sale 
rate for Russian ruble on the CBR transactions on the 
interbank market. Since 17 August 1999 the rate has been 
set by the CBR based on the current day quotes for 
foreign exchange markets (both stock market and OTC) 
based "US dollar to Russian ruble" transactions.
   

    
          
Main macroeconomic data 
of GoskomstatMain data of the RF Finance MinistryIMF's Dissemination 
Standards
Bulletin Board

