The Objectives, Tasks and Instruments of the Exchange Rate Policy


The Bank of Russia implements its foreign exchange policy in the 
general context of the monetary policy pursued by the Government and 
Central Bank of the Russian Federation. The major objectives of the 
Bank of Russia foreign exchange policy are to ensure stability of 
the national currency and create conditions for the dynamic 
development of Russia’s foreign exchange market.
In order to create conditions in the foreign exchange market 
corresponding to the objectives of the exchange rate policy and to 
manage (to even out) the rouble exchange rate, the Bank of Russia 
makes use of the following main instruments:
- foreign exchange interventions;
- deposit operations to regulate the level of rouble liquidity in 
the interbank market;
- shifting interest rates on the Bank of Russia operations in the 
money market.
The effect of using the market instruments of the exchange rate 
policy depends on the state of the monetary sphere as a whole and on 
the general economic situation.
When tendencies emerge in the domestic foreign exchange market, 
posing a threat of long-term destabiliaztion of the exchange rate, 
the Bank of Russia may also take additional measures, such as:
- changing the procedure for and the required rate of exporters’ 
foreign exchange earnings surrendering;
- changing the reserve requirements and other economic and 
prudential standards of credit organizations;
- modifying the procedure for conducting foreign exchange trading on 
the authorized currency exchanges and foreign exchange transaction 
rules.
The Bank of Russia continuously improves the system of control over 
the main sectors of the foreign exchange market, especially over 
transactions at the authorized currency exchanges, securing quick 
and effective use of the foreign exchange policy instruments.
 
Foreign Exchange Policy in 1998 and the Bank of Russia Policy 
Response to the Financial Crisis
 
The main feature of the exchange rate policy in the first half of 
1998 was the setting of middle-term targets for the rouble exchange 
rate dynamics (the so-called "currency band"). The quantitative 
parameters of the exchange rate policy—the range of possible 
fluctuations of the exchange rate of the rouble from 5.25 roubles to 
7.15 roubles to the US dollar—were established, taking into 
consideration the rouble exchange rate situation in the domestic 
foreign exchange market during the preceding period. The decisive 
factors were a significant surplus in Russia’s balance of trade and 
large foreign portfolio investments in Russia. In some periods the 
capital inflow put substantial upward pressure on the rouble rate 
and enabled the Bank of Russia to significantly increase its foreign 
exchange reserves.
The crisis that hit more or less all sectors of the Russian 
financial market had been gradually developing. It is a common 
knowledge that the most significant achievement of the financial 
stabilization policy in Russia was the suppression of inflation (in 
1997 consumer prices rose only by 11%). However, as budget 
expenditures continued to exceed revenues, the use by the Government 
of non-inflationary sources of financing the budget deficit led to 
significant growth in government debt. The crisis that broke out in 
East Asian financial markets compelled many foreign investors to 
review their investment strategy with regard to the transitional 
economies and emerging markets. As a result, the inflow of foreign 
investment to the Russian government debt market dwindled, while the 
government debt-servicing expenditures grew considerably. Decrease 
in the world prices of oil and some other key Russian exports led to 
the reduction of Russia’s balance of trade surplus and eventually in 
the first half of 1998 the current account of the balance of 
payments slipped into negative ground. 
One of the main manifestations of the crisis was recurrent 
instability in the Russian financial markets, which first occurred 
in the autumn of 1997 and led to growth in the demand for foreign 
exchange and increased pressure on the rouble exchange rate. There 
appeared expectations of a sharp fall in the rouble rate in the 
financial markets. Selling roubles, participants in the Russian 
financial markets tried to minimize the possible negative 
consequences of the deepening financial crisis, which, as world 
experience shows, result, above all, in a sharp devaluation of the 
domestic currency. Worried by the developments, foreign investors 
tried to get rid of investments in Russian financial instruments.
In January-July 1998 the Bank of Russia using instruments of foreign 
exchange and monetary policy managed to ensure stability of the 
exchange rate of the rouble, but the exchange rate stability was 
maintained at the price of foreign exchange reserve depletion. Aid 
received by Russia in July from international financial institutions 
provided ground for hopes that the financial crisis would be 
overcome without substantial damage to the real sector of the 
economy. However, even with considerable loans it appeared 
impossible to contain the development of the negative trends and the 
crisis exacerbated. Demand for foreign exchange had been growing 
since May 1998 and the Bank of Russia had to spend considerable 
foreign exchange resources to maintain the exchange rate at the 
level of 6.10-6.30 roubles to the dollar. In a bid to avoid the 
decline of the currency reserves below the critical point, the Bank 
of Russia on August 17 had to abandon the practice of announcing 
daily buy and sell rates of the dollar in the interbank foreign 
exchange market and review mid-term targets of the rouble exchange 
rate dynamics. New limits were set on the rouble rate fluctuations 
at 6.0 roubles to 9.5 roubles to the dollar, but keeping the 
ruble/dollar rate within this band was conditioned by successful 
implementation of anti-crisis measures.
Although it no longer announced daily buy and sell rates of the 
dollar, the Bank of Russia in the second half of August continued to 
conduct foreign exchange interventions to check growth in the dollar 
rate. However, despite the Bank of Russia efforts, the dollar rose 
quickly. On September 1 the official rate rose to 9.3301 roubles to 
the dollar, an increase of almost 50% on the August 15 rate of 
6.2900 roubles to the dollar. That situation forced the Bank of 
Russia to give up large foreign exchange interventions at the end of 
August and let the market locate the exchange rate of the rouble at 
which demand and supply of foreign exchange would be balanced, 
confining Bank of Russia’s operations to the task of evening out the 
exchange rate dynamics. Early in September the Bank of Russia 
announced the switch to a floating exchange rate regime.
The initial adjustment of the market to the new conditions was 
complicated with sharp fluctuations of the exchange rate, which were 
compounded by relatively low aggregate turnover of operations in the 
foreign exchange market. The rouble exchange rate dynamics was 
determined not so much by the current state of the Russian economy, 
as by the expectations of further deterioration of the situation, 
making forecasting the exchange rate on the basis of fundamental 
macroeconomic indicators practically impossible. However, the 
exchange rate fluctuations in September showed the approximate 
limits of the band within which a balanced rouble rate may be 
maintained and its relative stabilization was possible. In the last 
10 days of September the exchange rate of the rouble volatility 
diminished significantly. Overall, in 1998 the official exchange 
rate of the US dollar to the Russian rouble rose from 5.96 to 20.65 
rubles to the dollar, or 3.46 times.
To restore the domestic foreign exchange market, ensure the return 
of export earnings to Russia and create conditions for replenishment 
of the official foreign exchange reserves, the Bank of Russia in 
September began to implement a series of measures to tighten foreign 
exchange regulation and foreign exchange control. Since September 16 
exporters are required to sell their export earnings on currency 
exchanges only and since October 1 export earnings are sold only at 
the special trading sessions of interbank currency exchanges. On 
December 31 the proportion of foreign exchange earnings which 
exporters are required to sell was raised to 75% and the periods 
during which export earnings must be repatriated and sold were 
shortened. From January 1, 1999, the limits on the open foreign 
currency position of banks were lowered. 
 
Domestic Foreign Exchange Market
 
In the first half of 1998 the interbank foreign exchange spot market 
functioned without irregularities, and its volume of transactions 
was almost twice that of the first half of 1997. The crisis in the 
Russian financial market in August 1998 became the main factor that 
had significant impact on the structure of the foreign exchange 
market. Prior to the crisis most foreign exchange operations were 
conducted in the interbank market, with average monthly volume on 
both spot and forward (delivery and settlement) rouble/dollar 
transactions in that period exceeding $140 billion. The average 
monthly volume of transactions on the authorized currency exchanges 
during that period made up about 1.5% of the interbank market 
volume, or $2.2 billion. After August 17 operations on the interbank 
foreign exchange market were suspended almost completely. The bulk 
of transactions moved to the authorized currency exchanges (Moscow 
Interbank Currency Exchange, or MICEX, and seven regional currency 
exchanges), which guaranteed settlements on deals. On August 26 US 
dollar trading with rate fixing was suspended on MICEX due to a 
considerable imbalance between the demand for foreign exchange and 
its supply, and on August 28 trading with rate fixing was suspended 
for the same reason on all authorized regional currency exchanges. 
Electronic lot trading systems of the currency exchanges assumed the 
role of the main mechanism of conducting conversion operations. The 
average monthly volume of transactions on the authorized currency 
exchanges in the post-crisis period was about $3.2 billion.
The foreign exchange forward market registered a sharp fall in 
transaction volumes and shortening of terms since December 1997 due 
to the general worsening of the situation in the domestic financial 
markets and a vast amount of obligations between banks, accumulated 
in the preceding period. The average daily turnover of forward 
transactions in 1998 was almost three times lower than in 1997. 
Non-deliverable forward contracts continued to make up the lion’s 
share of transactions.
 
Foreign Exchange Policy in 1999
 
The floating exchange rate regime will be retained this year. An 
indispensable condition for stability of the rouble exchange rate in 
1999 is balanced monetary policy, ensuring compliance with the 
targets set for money supply growth. The principal objective of the 
exchange rate policy pursued by the Bank of Russia in 1999 is to 
ensure stability and predictability of the rouble exchange rate 
dynamics and prevent abrupt fluctuations of the rouble rate. To 
attain this objective market instruments of the exchange rate and 
monetary policy are used. The Bank of Russia may also introduce 
changes and modifications of the foreign exchange regulations and 
foreign exchange controls as well as implement all the necessary 
measures to ensure that economic agents comply with the Russian 
legislation regulating foreign exchange operations.
The Bank of Russia sees one of its chief tasks in 1999 in restoring 
public and corporate confidence in the rouble, which was 
considerably undermined by its abrupt devaluation. A major task 
ensuring simultaneously the achievement of other targets and 
purposes of the foreign exchange policy is that of maintaining the 
official foreign exchange reserves at the level ensuring stability 
of the Russian monetary and financial system. Practically the only 
way of replenishing foreign exchange reserves is the Bank of 
Russia’s purchases of the foreign exchange sold by exporters in the 
domestic foreign exchange market in accordance with the regulations 
requiring exporters to sell a part of their export earnings.
The rouble exchange rate in 1999 will be set as a rate balancing the 
demand for and supply of Russian roubles in the foreign exchange 
market. The Bank of Russia will continue with the practice of 
setting the official exchange rate of the rouble against foreign 
currencies on the basis of the rouble market rate against these 
currencies and foreign currencies’ cross-rates in the foreign 
exchange markets. The Bank of Russia will seek to maintain a unified 
exchange rate of the rouble in all sectors of the domestic foreign 
exchange market. It will manage rouble rate mainly by market 
instruments, such as interventions, shifts in interest rates and 
deposit operations. The Bank of Russia will resort to administrative 
action only if there arises the threat of a crisis in the foreign 
exchange market, which may destabilize Russia’s entire monetary and 
financial system. 
From mid-August to the end of December 1998 the rouble/dollar real 
exchange rate index declined by more than 45% and there is reason to 
believe that this level of the real exchange rate of the rouble, 
which is determined by the correlation of the inflation rate and the 
pace of change in the exchange rate, will persist in the first half 
of 1999. A significant surplus in the current account of Russia’s 
balance of payments, accumulated in the fourth quarter of 1998 and 
forecasted for 1999, should positively influence the exchange rate 
dynamics. 
The effectiveness of the exchange rate policy will depend on the 
state of the domestic foreign exchange market in 1999. Foreign 
exchange operations have dropped in volume dramatically as the 
solvency of banks – the main participants in the foreign exchange 
market – have been decreasing. As a result of the plunge of the 
exchange rate of the rouble after the revision of the fundamental 
principles of the exchange rate policy in August 1998 many Russian 
banks which had assumed obligations to deliver foreign exchange 
under forward contracts found themselves unable to meet their 
commitments. Volumes in the interbank foreign exchange market may 
return to pre-crisis levels only if confidence in the banking sector 
is restored. As the experience of the previous years shows, this 
process may take a long time and its outcome will depend on the 
recovery of the country’s banking system as a whole. As the rouble 
exchange rate dynamics becomes more predictable and the financial 
markets recover, the necessary conditions will emerge for the 
development of all sectors of the domestic foreign exchange market, 
including the forward and derivatives markets. 
The main mechanism of conducting foreign exchange transactions in 
the near future will be the lot trading systems of the authorized 
currency exchanges. This, in addition to the economic factors 
described above, will be a result of the regulation requiring 
exporters to sell 75% of their export earnings at the special 
trading sessions on the currency exchanges. The Bank of Russia 
actively participates in drafting and refining rules to conduct 
currency trading on exchanges, taking into account the interests of 
different groups of foreign exchange market participants. The 
principal objectives of the Bank of Russia are to ensure that 
trading is conducted without interruptions and prevent abrupt 
fluctuations of the exchange rate of the rouble.
